#separator:tab
#html:true
#tags column:7
Ja idem u školu.	I am going to school.	ja		I		
Ti si moj prijatelj.	You are my friend.	ti		you (singular)		
On voli čitati knjige.	He likes to read books.	on		he		
Ona ide u trgovinu.	She is going to the store.	ona		she		
Mi smo sretni.	We are happy.	mi		we		
Vi radite dobro.	You (plural) are doing well.	vi		you (plural)		
Oni igraju nogomet.	They are playing soccer.	oni		they		
Što radiš?	What are you doing?	što		what		
Tko je tu?	Who is here?	tko		who		leech
Gdje je park?	Where is the park?	gdje		where		
Zašto kasniš?	Why are you late?	zašto		why		
Kako se zoveš?	What is your name?	zvati		to call		
Koji film gledate?	Which movie are you watching?	koji		which		
Kada dolaziš?	When are you coming?	kada		when		leech
Onda ćemo ići.	Then we will go.	onda		then		leech
Ako padne kiša, ostanemo kod kuće.	If it rains, we stay at home.	ako		if		
Stvarno je lijepo ovdje.	It is really nice here.	stvarno		really		leech
Volim kavu, ali ne pijem je često.	"I like coffee, but I don&#x27;t drink it often."	ali		but		
Odlazim jer je kasno.	I am leaving because it's late.	jer		because		
Ne znam.	"I don&#x27;t know."	ne		not		
Ovo je moje auto.	This is my car.	ovo		this		
Treba mi ovo za školu.	I need this for school.	Treba mi ovo		I need this		leech
To je lijepo.	That is nice.	to		that		
Sve je u redu.	Everything is fine.	u redu		ok		
Želiš li vodu ili sok?	Do you want water or juice?	ili		or		
Idem u školu i na posao.	I am going to school and to work.	i		and		
Znam da ćeš doći.	I know that you will come.	znati		to know		
Znam gdje je trgovina.	I know where the store is.	Znam		I know		
Ne znam što raditi.	I don't know what to do.	Ne znam		I don't know		
Mislim da će biti sunčano.	I think it will be sunny.	misliti		to think		leech
Moramo doći na vrijeme.	We need to come on time.	doci		to come		leech
Stavite knjige na stol.	Put the books on the table.	staviti		to put		leech
Uzmi ovo za sebe.	Take this for yourself.	uzeti		to take		
Trebam pronaći svoje ključeve.	I need to find my keys.	pronaci		to find		leech
Volim slušati glazbu.	I love listening to music.	slušati		to listen		
Radim od 9 do 5.	I work from 9 to 5.	raditi		to work		
Govoriš li engleski?	Do you speak English?	govoriti		to talk, speak		
Možeš mi dati svoju adresu?	Can you give me your address?	dati		to give (somebody something)		leech
Sviđa mi se ovaj film.	I like this movie.	svidati		to like		
Mogu ti pomoći ako želiš.	I can help you if you want.	pomoci		to help		leech
Volim te.	I love you.	voljeti		to love		
Moramo čekati bus.	We need to wait for the bus.	cekati		to wait		
Sviđaš mi se jako.	I really like you.	Svidaš mi se		I like you		leech
Ne sviđa mi se ovo.	I don't like this.	Ne svida mi se ovo		I don't like this		
Volim te jako puno.	I love you very much.	Volim te		I love you		
Imam nula kuna.	I have zero kuna.	nula		0		
Imam jedan auto.	I have one car.	jedan		1		
Imamo dva psa.	We have two dogs.	dva		2		
Želim tri jaja.	I want three eggs.	tri		3		
Imamo četiri djece.	We have four children.	cetiri		4		leech
Pet minuta je dovoljno.	Five minutes is enough.	pet		5		
Imamo šest knjiga.	We have six books.	šest		6		
Sedam je broj koji volim.	Seven is a number I like.	sedam		7		
Osam sati je dugo čekanje.	Eight hours is a long wait.	osam		8		
Devet dana je prošlo.	Nine days have passed.	devet		9		
Deset dolara je dovoljno.	Ten dollars is enough.	deset		10		
On ima jedanaest godina.	He is eleven years old.	jedanaest		11		
Dvanaest osoba je prisutno.	Twelve people are present.	dvanaest		12		
Trinaest je sretan broj za mene.	Thirteen is a lucky number for me.	trinaest		13		
Imamo četrnaest jabuka.	We have fourteen apples.	cetrnaest		14		
Petnaest minuta je prošlo.	Fifteen minutes have passed.	petnaest		15		
Šesnaest djece igraju vani.	Sixteen children are playing outside.	šesnaest		16		
Sedamnaest je moj omiljeni broj.	Seventeen is my favorite number.	sedamnaest		17		
On ima osamnaest godina.	He is eighteen years old.	osamnaest		18		
Devetnaest je broj koji biram.	Nineteen is the number I choose.	devetnaest		19		
Dvadeset knjiga je puno.	Twenty books is a lot.	dvadeset		20		leech
Ovaj telefon je nov.	This phone is new.	nov		new	nov, nova, novo, novi, noviji, najnoviji	
Ta knjiga je stara.	That book is old.	star		old	star, stara, staro, stari, stariji, najstariji	
Imamo malo vremena.	We have a little time.	malo		few	mali, mala, malo, mali, -, -	leech
Ima mnogo ljudi ovdje.	There are many people here.	mnogo		many	mnogo, mnoga, mnogo, mnogi, -, -	
Koliko je sati?	What time is it?	koliko?		how much?		
To je pogrešan odgovor.	That is the wrong answer.	pogrešan		wrong	pogrešan, pogrešna, pogrešno, pogrešni, pogrešniji, najpogrešniji	leech
Točan je odgovor.	The answer is correct.	točan		correct	tocan, tocna, tocno, tocni, tocniji, najtocniji	leech
Ova knjiga je loša.	This book is bad.	loš		bad	loš, loša, loše, loši, lošiji, najlošiji	leech
Ovo je dobar film.	This is a good movie.	dobar		good	dobar, dobra, dobro, dobri, bolji, najbolji	
Danas sam sretan.	Today I am happy.	sretan		happy	sretan, sretna, sretno, sretni, sretniji, najsretniji	leech
Ova haljina je kratka.	This dress is short.	kratak		short	kratak, kratka, kratko, kratki, kraci, najkraci	leech
Ovaj put je dug.	This road is long.	dug		long	dug, duga, dugo, dugi, duži, najduži	
On ima malen stan.	He has a small apartment.	malen		small	malen, malena, maleno, maleni, manji, najmanji	leech
Ova kuća je velika.	This house is big.	velik		big	velik, velika, veliko, veliki, veci, najveci	leech
Idemo tamo.	We are going there.	tamo		there		leech
Ovdje je lijepo.	It is nice here.	ovdje		here		leech
Skreni desno.	Turn right.	desno		right		
Skreni lijevo.	Turn left.	lijevo		left		
Ovaj cvijet je lijep.	This flower is beautiful.	lijep		beautiful	lijep, lijepa, lijepo, lijepi, ljepši, najljepši	
On je mlad dečko.	He is a young guy.	mlad		young	mlad, mlada, mlado, mladi, mladi, najmladi	leech
		zdravo		hello		
Vidimo se sutra.	See you tomorrow.	vidimo se		see you later		
Čuvaj se!	Take care!	cuvaj se		take care		
Ne brini, sve će biti u redu.	Don’t worry, everything will be fine.	ne brini		don't worry		
Naravno, mogu pomoći.	Of course, I can help.	naravno		of course		leech
Dobar dan, kako ste?	Good day, how are you?	dobar dan		good day		
Bok, drago mi je što te vidim.	Hi, nice to see you.	bok		hi		
Zbogom, vidimo se sutra.	Goodbye, see you tomorrow.	zbogom		farewell (formal)		leech
Dovidenja, čuvaj se.	Goodbye, take care.	dovidenja		goodbye		
Oprostite, gdje je najbliži restoran?	Excuse me, where is the nearest restaurant?	oprostite		excuse me		
Žao mi je zbog kašnjenja.	I’m sorry for the delay.	žao mi je		sorry		leech
Hvala na pomoći.	Thank you for your help.	hvala		thank you		
Molim te, pomozi mi.	Please, help me.	molim		please		
Sada je vrijeme za ručak.	It’s time for lunch now.	sada		now		
Poslijepodne idem u šetnju.	In the afternoon, I go for a walk.	poslijepodne	Neuter	afternoon		
Prijepodne radim u uredu.	In the morning, I work in the office.	prijepodne	Neuter	morning		
Noću volim čitati.	I like to read at night.	noc	Feminine	night		
Jutro je svježe i hladno.	The morning is fresh and cold.	jutro	Neuter	early morning		leech
Večer&nbsp;provodim s obitelji.	I spend the evening with my family.	vecer	Feminine	evening		
Podne je najtoplije vrijeme dana.	Noon is the hottest time of the day.	podne	Neuter	noon		
Ponoć je prošla.	Midnight has passed.	ponoc	Feminine	midnight		leech
Imam sastanak za sat vremena.	I have a meeting in an hour.	sat	Masculine	hour		leech
Čekaj jednu minutu.	Wait one minute.	minuta	Feminine	minute		
Trebat&nbsp;će nekoliko sekundi.	It will take a few seconds.	sekunda	Feminine	second (time)		
Dan je&nbsp;sunčan i lijep.	The day is sunny and nice.	dan	Masculine	day		
Ovaj tjedan imam puno posla.	This week I have a lot of work.	tjedan	Masculine	week		
Svaki mjesec idem u teretanu.	I go to the gym every month.	mjesec	Masculine	month/moon		
Ove godine idem na more.	This year, I am going to the sea.	godina	Feminine	year		leech
Vrijeme je promjenjivo.	The weather is variable.	vrijeme	Neuter	time		
Koji je datum danas?	What is the date today?	datum	Masculine	date (time)		
Prekjučer&nbsp;sam bio u Zagrebu.	The day before yesterday I was in Zagreb.	prekjucer		the day before yesterday		
Jučer je bilo kišno.	It was rainy yesterday.	jucer		yesterday		
Danas idem u školu.	Today, I am going to school.	danas		today		
Sutra idem na posao.	Tomorrow, I am going to work.	sutra		tomorrow		leech
Prekosutra&nbsp;ću se vratiti.	The day after tomorrow, I will return.	prekosutra		the day after tomorrow		
Ponedjeljak je prvi dan tjedna.	Monday is the first day of the week.	ponedjeljak	Masculine	Monday		leech
Utorkom idem na trening.	On Tuesdays, I go to training.	utorak	Masculine	Tuesday		leech
Srijedom imam sastanak.	On Wednesdays, I have a meeting.	srijeda	Feminine	Wednesday		leech
Četvrtak je moj slobodan dan.	Thursday is my day off.	cetvrtak	Masculine	Thursday		
Petkom idem u kino.	On Fridays, I go to the cinema.	petak	Masculine	Friday		
Subota je dan za opuštanje.	Saturday is a day for relaxation.	subota	Feminine	Saturday		leech
Nedjeljom idem u crkvu.	On Sundays, I go to church.	nedjelja	Feminine	Sunday		leech
Život je lijep.	Life is beautiful.	život	Masculine	life		
Moja žena je doktorica.	My wife is a doctor.	žena	Feminine	woman, wife		
On je muškarac.	He is a man.	muškarac	Masculine	man		leech
Ljubav je važna u životu.	Love is important in life.	ljubav	Feminine	love		
Moj&nbsp;dečko voli sport.	My boyfriend likes sports.	decko	Masculine	boyfriend		
Moja djevojka ide u školu.	My girlfriend goes to school.	djevojka	Feminine	girlfriend		leech
Dao sam joj poljubac.	I gave her a kiss.	poljubac	Masculine	kiss		leech
Seksualnost je osobna stvar.	Sexuality is a personal matter.	seks	Masculine	sex		
Dijete se igra u parku.	The child is playing in the park.	dijete	Neuter	child		leech
Beba spava u krevetu.	The baby is sleeping in the crib.	beba	Feminine	baby		
Dječak vozi bicikl.	The boy is riding a bicycle.	djecak	Masculine	boy		leech
Mama pravi večeru.	Mom is making dinner.	mama	Feminine	mom		
Tata ide na posao.	Dad is going to work.	tata	Masculine	dad		leech
Majka je kod kuće.	Mother is at home.	majka	Feminine	mother		leech
Otac čita novine.	Father is reading the newspaper.	otac	Masculine	father		leech
Moji roditelji su na odmoru.	My parents are on vacation.	roditelji	Masculine	parents		
Sin igra nogomet.	The son is playing football.	sin	Masculine	son		
Kći studira na sveučilištu.	The daughter is studying at the university.	kci	Feminine	daughter		
Moj brat je stariji od mene.	My brother is older than me.	brat	Masculine	brother		
Stajati na jednom mjestu nije lako.	Standing in one place is not easy.	stajati		to stand		
Sjedni i opusti se.	Sit down and relax.	sjesti		to sit		
Ležim na krevetu.	I am lying on the bed.	ležati		to lie		
Moraš zatvoriti vrata.	You need to close the door.	zatvoriti		to close		leech
Otvori prozor, molim te.	Open the window, please.	otvoriti		to open (e.g. door)		leech
Izgubio sam ključeve.	I lost my keys.	izgubiti		to lose		leech
Želim pobijediti na natjecanju.	I want to win the competition.	pobijediti		to win		leech
Cvijet&nbsp;će umrijeti bez vode.	The flower will die without water.	umrijeti		to die		
Živim u Zagrebu.	I live in Zagreb.	živjeti		to live		
Uključi&nbsp;svjetlo.	Turn on the light.	uključiti		to turn on, include, join, involve		leech
Isključi televizor.	Turn off the TV.	iskljuciti		to turn off		
Ubio je pauka.	He killed the spider.	ubiti		to kill		
Ozlijedio je nogu.	He injured his leg.	ozlijediti		to injure		leech
Ne diraj te stvari.	Don’t touch those things.	dirati		to touch		leech
Gledam film.	I am watching a movie.	gledati		to watch		
Pijem vodu.	I am drinking water.	piti		to drink		leech
Jedem voće.	I am eating fruit.	jesti		to eat		
Hodam do škole.	I walk to school.	hodati		to walk		
Želim te upoznati.	I want to meet you.	upoznati		to meet		leech
Ne kladim se na sport.	I don’t bet on sports.	kladiti se		to bet		leech
Poljubio ju je u obraz.	He kissed her on the cheek.	poljubiti		to kiss		leech
Pratim novosti.	I follow the news.	pratiti		to follow		leech
Oni će se vjenčati sljedeće godine.	They will get married next year.	vjencati se		to marry		leech
Moram odgovoriti na e-mail.	I need to reply to the email.	odgovoriti		to answer		
Pitam te nešto.	I am asking you something.	pitati		to ask		leech
Imam pitanje za tebe.	I have a question for you.	pitanje	Neuter	question		
Moja tvrtka je velika.	My company is large.	tvrtka	Feminine	company		leech
Poslovanje je uspješno.	The business is successful.	poslovanje	Neuter	business		leech
Imam novi posao.	I have a new job.	posao	Masculine	job		leech
Trebam više novca.	I need more money.	novac	Masculine	money		leech
Imam novi telefon.	I have a new phone.	telefon	Masculine	telephone		
Radim u uredu.	I work in an office.	ured	Masculine	office		
Doktor je vrlo ljubazan.	The doctor is very kind.	doktor	Masculine	doctor		
Bolnica je blizu.	The hospital is nearby.	bolnica	Feminine	hospital		leech
Medicinska sestra pomaže pacijentima.	The nurse helps the patients.	medicinska sestra	Feminine	nurse		
Policajac pomaže ljudima.	The police officer helps people.	policajac	Masculine	policeman		
Predsjednik drži govor.	The president is giving a speech.	predsjednik	Masculine	president		
Ima bijelu košulju.	He has a white shirt.	bijel		white	bijel, bijela, bijelo, bijeli, bjelji, najbjelji	leech
Ona nosi crnu haljinu.	She is wearing a black dress.	crn		black	crn, crna, crno, crni, crnji, najcrnji	
Ima crvene ruže u vrtu.	There are red roses in the garden.	crven		red	crven, crvena, crveno, crveni, crveniji, najcrveniji	
Plavo more je predivno.	The blue sea is beautiful.	plav		blue	plav, plava, plavo, plavi, plavlji, najplavlji	leech
Zeleni travnjak je svjež.	The green lawn is fresh.	zelen		green	zelen, zelena, zeleno, zeleni, zeleniji, najzeleniji	leech
Žuta svjetlost je topla.	The yellow light is warm.	žut		yellow	žut, žuta, žuto, žuti, žuci, najžuci	
Taj je automobil spor.	That car is slow.	spor		slow	spor, spora, sporo, spori, sporiji, najsporiji	
Ovaj vlak je vrlo brz.	This train is very fast.	brz		quick	brz, brza, brzo, brzi, brži, najbrži	leech
Film je vrlo smiješan.	The movie is very funny.	smiješan		funny	smiješan, smiješna, smiješno, smiješni, smješniji, najsmješniji	
To je nepravedan zakon.	That is an unjust law.	nepravedan		unfair	nepravedan, nepravedna, nepravedno, nepravedni, nepravedniji, najnepravedniji	leech
On je pravedan sudac.	He is a just judge.	pravedan		fair	pravedan, pravedna, pravedno, pravedni, pravedniji, najpravedniji	
Ova knjiga je teška.	This book is difficult.	težak		difficult, complex, heavy	težak, teška, teško, teški, teži, najteži	
Ova torba je laka.	This bag is light.	lak		easy/light	lak, laka, lako, laki, lakši, najlakši	leech
Ovo je lijep dan.	This is a beautiful day.	Ovo je teško		This is difficult		
On je bogat čovjek.	He is a rich man.	bogat		rich	bogat, bogata, bogato, bogati, bogatiji, najbogatiji	
Oni su siromašni.	They are poor.	siromašan		poor	siromašan, siromašna, siromašno, siromašni, siromašniji, najsiromašniji	leech
On je jak sportaš.	He is a strong athlete.	jak		strong	jak, jaka, jako, jaki, jaci, najjaci	
Ovaj telefon je slab.	This phone is weak.	slab		weak	slab, slaba, slabo, slabi, slabiji, najslabiji	leech
Ovaj grad je siguran.	This city is safe.	siguran		safe, sure, secure	siguran, sigurna, sigurno, sigurni, sigurniji, najsigurniji	
Nakon posla sam umoran.	I am tired after work.	umoran		tired	umoran, umorna, umorno, umorni, umorniji, najumorniji	leech
Ponosan sam na svoje dijete.	I am proud of my child.	ponosan		proud	ponosan, ponosna, ponosno, ponosni, ponosniji, najponosniji	
On je sit i zadovoljan.	He is full and satisfied.	sit		full (from eating)	sit, sita, sito, siti, sitiji, najsitiji	leech
On je bolestan i ide doktoru.	He is sick and going to the doctor.	bolestan		sick	bolestan, bolesna, bolesno, bolesni, bolesniji, najbolesniji	leech
Osjećam&nbsp;se zdravo.	I feel healthy.	zdrav		healthy	zdrav, zdrava, zdravo, zdravi, zdraviji, najzdraviji	
On je ljut zbog kašnjenja.	He is angry about the delay.	ljut		angry / hot (spicy)	ljut, ljuta, ljuto, ljuti, ljuci, najljuci	leech
On je nizak čovjek.	He is a short man.	nizak		low, short	nizak, niska, nisko, niski, niži, najniži	leech
Ona je visoka djevojka.	She is a tall girl.	visok		high, big, tall	visok, visoka, visoko, visoki, viši, najviši	leech
Ova površina je ravna.	This surface is flat.	ravan		straight, level	ravan, ravna, ravno, ravni, ravniji, najravniji	
Svaki dan idem na posao.	I go to work every day.	svaki		every/each		leech
Uvijek idem na trening.	I always go to training.	uvijek		always		
Zapravo, to nije istina.	Actually, that is not true.	zapravo		actually		leech
Vidimo se ponovno&nbsp;sljedeći tjedan.	We will see each other again next week.	ponovno		again		
Već&nbsp;sam završio s poslom.	I have already finished the work.	vec		already		leech
Trebam manje novca.	I need less money.	manje		less		leech
Najviše volim plavu boju.	I like the color blue the most.	najviše		most		leech
Želim više vremena.	I want more time.	više		more, over/above		leech
Nijedno pitanje nije bilo lako.	None of the questions were easy.	nijedan		none, no one, nobody		leech
Ovo je vrlo važno.	This is very important.	vrlo		very		
Ona voli životinje.	She loves animals.	životinja	Feminine	animal		leech
Svinja je na farmi.	The pig is on the farm.	svinja	Feminine	pig		
Krava daje mlijeko.	The cow gives milk.	krava	Feminine	cow		
Konj&nbsp;trči brzo.	The horse runs fast.	konj	Masculine	horse		
Pas je prijateljski.	The dog is friendly.	pas	Masculine	dog		
Ovca se pasu na polju.	The sheep are grazing in the field.	ovca	Feminine	sheep		leech
Majmun se penje na drvo.	The monkey climbs the tree.	majmun	Masculine	monkey		
Mačka&nbsp;spava na krevetu.	The cat is sleeping on the bed.	macka	Feminine	cat		
Medvjed&nbsp;žvače ribu.	The bear is eating a fish.	medvjed	Masculine	bear		
Kokoš nosi jaja.	The hen lays eggs.	kokoš	Feminine	chicken (animal)		leech
Patka pliva u jezeru.	The duck is swimming in the lake.	patka	Feminine	duck		
Leptir leti iznad cvijeća.	The butterfly is flying above the flowers.	leptir	Masculine	butterfly		
Pčela&nbsp;pravi med.	The bee makes honey.	pcela	Feminine	bee		
Riba pliva u vodi.	The fish swims in the water.	riba	Feminine	fish (animal)		
Pauk plete mrežu.	The spider is weaving a web.	pauk	Masculine	spider		
Zmija se skriva u travi.	The snake is hiding in the grass.	zmija	Feminine	snake		leech
Izađimo vani.	Let’s go outside.	vani		outside		leech
Ostani unutra.	Stay inside.	unutra		inside		
Kuća je daleko od škole.	The house is far from the school.	daleko		far		
Trgovina je blizu.	The store is near.	blizu		close		leech
Mačka je ispod stola.	The cat is under the table.	ispod		below		leech
Balon je iznad stola.	The balloon is above the table.	iznad		above		
Stol je pored prozora.	The table is next to the window.	pored		beside		leech
Auto je sprijeda.	The car is in front.	sprijeda		front		
Kuća je straga.	The house is at the back.	straga		back (position)		leech
Ovaj kolač je sladak.	This cake is sweet.	sladak		sweet, cute	sladak, slatka, slatko, slatki, sladi, najsladi	leech
Limun je kiseo.	The lemon is sour.	kiseo		sour	kiseo, kisela, kiselo, kiseli, kiseliji, najkiseliji	
To je čudan zvuk.	That is a strange sound.	cudan		strange	cudan, cudna, cudno, cudni, cudniji, najcudniji	leech
Jastuk je mekan.	The pillow is soft.	mekan		soft	mekan, mekana, mekano, mekani, mekaniji, najmekaniji	leech
Ova stijena je tvrda.	This rock is hard.	tvrd		hard	tvrd, tvrda, tvrdo, tvrdi, tvrdi, najtvrdi	
To je glup odgovor.	That is a stupid answer.	glup		stupid	glup, glupa, glupo, glupi, gluplji, najgluplji	leech
On je lud za glazbom.	He is crazy about music.	lud		crazy	lud, luda, ludo, ludi, ludi, najludi	
Telefon je zauzet.	The phone is occupied.	zauzet		busy	zauzet, zauzeta, zauzeto, zauzeti, zauzetiji, najzauzetiji	
Ona je zabrinuta zbog ispita.	She is worried about the exam.	zabrinut		worried	zabrinut, zabrinuta, zabrinuto, zabrinuti, zabrinutiji, najzabrinutiji	leech
Bio sam iznenađen s rezultatom.	I was surprised by the result.	iznenaden		surprised	iznenaden, iznenadena, iznenadeno, iznenadeni, iznenadeniji, najiznenadeniji	leech
Taj film je kul.	That movie is cool.	kul		cool	kul, kul, kul, kul, više kul, najviše kul	
On je dobro odgojen mladić.	He is a well-mannered young man.	dobro odgojen		well-behaved	dobro odgojen, dobro odgojena, dobro odgojeno, dobro odgojeni, bolje odgojeni, najbolje odgojeni	leech
On je zao čovjek.	He is a bad man.	zao		evil	zao, zla, zlo, zli, gori, najgori	
Ona je pametna studentica.	She is a smart student.	pametan		clever	pametan, pametna, pametno, pametni, pametniji, najpametniji	
Pivo je hladno.	The beer is cold.	hladan		cold (adjective)	hladan, hladna, hladno, hladni, hladniji, najhladniji	leech
Danas je vruće.	It is hot today.	vruc		hot (temperature)	vruc, vruca, vruce, vruci, vruci, najvruci	
Ima bol u glavi.	He has a headache.	glava	Feminine	head		
Nos me boli zbog alergija.	My nose hurts because of allergies.	nos	Masculine	nose		
Njena kosa je crna i gusta.	Her hair is black and thick.	kosa	Feminine	hair		
Zatvori usta dok jedeš.	Close your mouth while eating.	usta	Feminine	mouth		leech
Imam probleme s lijevim uhom.	I have problems with my left ear.	uho	Neuter	ear		
Njegovo oko je ozlijeđeno.	His eye is injured.	oko	Neuter	eye		
Ruka mu je prekrivena ozljedama.	His arm is covered with injuries.	ruka	Feminine	hand		
Stopalo me boli nakon dugog hodanja.	My foot hurts after walking a lot.	stopalo	Neuter	foot		
Srce mi kuca brzo kad trčim.	My heart beats fast when I run.	srce	Neuter	heart		
Moje misli su uvijek u mom mozgu.	My thoughts are always in my brain.	mozak	Masculine	brain		leech
Povuci ručicu da otvoriš ladicu.	Pull the handle to open the drawer.	povuci		to pull (open)		leech
On gura vrata da bi ih otvorio.	He is pushing the door to open it.	gurati		to push (open)		leech
Pritisni dugme da upališ svjetlo.	Press the button to turn on the light.	pritisnuti		to press/push		
Pogodio je mjesto gdje se nalazim.	He guessed where I am.	pogoditi		to hit/guess		
Uhvatila je loptu u letu.	She caught the ball in mid-air.	uhvatiti		to catch		leech
Borimo se za bolje uvjete rada.	We are fighting for better working conditions.	boriti se		to fight		leech
Bacila je papir u kantu za sme?e.	She threw the paper into the trash can.	baciti		to throw, drop, dump		leech
Trčimo zajedno ujutro.	We run together in the morning.	trcati		to run		
Čitam knjigu o povijesti.	I am reading a book about history.	citati		to read		
Pišem dnevnik svaki dan.	I write in a diary every day.	pisati		to write		leech
Moram popraviti kvar na televizoru.	I need to fix the problem with the TV.	popraviti		to fix, repair, improve		leech
Koliki je broj vašeg telefona?	What is your phone number?	brojati		to count		leech
Rezala je papir škare.	She cut the paper with scissors.	rezati		to cut		
Planiram prodati svoju staru knjigu.	I plan to sell my old book.	prodati		to sell		leech
Kupili smo novu haljinu za zabavu.	We bought a new dress for the party.	kupiti		to buy		leech
Moram platiti račun za telefon.	I need to pay the phone bill.	platiti		to pay		leech
U?imo hrvatski jezik zajedno.	We are learning Croatian together.	uciti		to study		
Sanjam o putovanjima.	I dream about traveling.	sanjati		to dream		leech
Spavam osam sati svake noći.	I sleep eight hours every night.	spavati		to sleep		leech
Djeca se igraju u parku.	The children are playing in the park.	park	Masculine	park		
Slavimo rođendan moje sestre.	We are celebrating my sister's birthday.	slaviti		to celebrate		leech
Trebam odmor nakon napornog dana.	I need a rest after a hard day.	odmarati		to rest		leech
Uživa u vođenju bloga.	He enjoys running a blog.	uživati		to enjoy		leech
Čistim kuću svaki vikend.	I clean the house every weekend.	cistiti		to clean		
Škola počinje u 8 sati ujutro.	School starts at 8 in the morning.	škola	Feminine	school		
Naša&nbsp;kuća ima veliki vrt.	Our house has a big garden.	kuca	Feminine	house		
Zatvori vrata kad ulaziš unutra.	Close the door when you go inside.	vrata	Feminine	door		
Moj muž voli kuhati.	My husband likes to cook.	muž	Masculine	husband		leech
Vjenčanje&nbsp;se održava u crkvi.	The wedding is held in the church.	vjencanje	Neuter	wedding		leech
Svaka osoba ima svoje vlastite interese.	Each person has their own interests.	osoba	Feminine	person		leech
Vozim automobil svaki dan.	I drive a car every day.	automobil	Masculine	car/automobile		
Moja&nbsp;kuća je moj dom.	My house is my home.	dom	Masculine	home		
Grad je velik i bučan.	The city is big and noisy.	grad	Masculine	city		
Cijena ulaznice je 50 kuna.	The ticket price is 50 kuna.	broj	Masculine	number		
Imamo trideset minuta za pripremu.	We have thirty minutes to prepare.	trideset		30		
Četrdeset ljudi prisustvovalo je sastanku.	Forty people attended the meeting.	cetrdeset		40		
Kupio je sto pedeset eura.	He bought it for one hundred fifty euros.	pedeset		50		
Šezdeset godina je dobar jubilej.	Sixty years is a good anniversary.	šezdeset		60		
Sedamdeset ljudi je bilo na zabavi.	Seventy people were at the party.	sedamdeset		70		
Osamdeset je broj godina mog djeda.	Eighty is my grandfather’s age.	osamdeset		80		
Devedeset je visoka cijena.	Ninety is a high price.	devedeset		90		leech
Knjiga ima sto stranica.	The book has one hundred pages.	sto		100		leech
Ova torba košta&nbsp;tisuću kuna.	This bag costs a thousand kuna.	tisucu		1000		leech
Potrebno je deset&nbsp;tisuća eura za putovanje.	It takes ten thousand euros for the trip.	deset tisuca		10,000		
Imamo sto tisuća dolara na računu.	We have one hundred thousand dollars in the account.	sto tisuca		100,000		
Nagrada iznosi milijun kuna.	The prize is one million kuna.	milijun		1 million		
Moj pas&nbsp;trči u vrtu.	My dog is running in the garden.	moj pas		my dog		
Tvoja mačka spava na mom krevetu.	Your cat is sleeping on my bed.	tvoja macka		her cat		
Njena haljina je elegantna.	Her dress is elegant.	njena haljina		her dress		
Njegov auto je plave boje.	His car is blue.	njegov auto		his car		
Njegova lopta je crvena.	His ball is red.	njegova lopta		his ball		leech
Naš dom je u blizini parka.	Our home is near the park.	naš dom		our home		
Vaš tim pobijedio je u utakmici.	Your team won the match.	vaš tim		your team		
Njihova tvrtka je vrlo uspješna.	Their company is very successful.	njihova tvrtka		their company		leech
Svi smo došli na sastanak.	We all came to the meeting.	svi		everybody		
Radimo zajedno na ovom projektu.	We are working together on this project.	zajedno		together		
Uzmi drugo staklo ako je prvo slomljeno.	Take the other glass if the first one is broken.	drugi		second, other		
To nema veze s našim planovima.	It has nothing to do with our plans.	nema veze		doesn't matter		
Živjeli smo i radovali.	We lived and enjoyed.	živjeti		to live, reside		leech
Opusti se i uživaj u vikendu.	Relax and enjoy the weekend.	opustiti se		relax		leech
Slažem se s tobom.	I agree with you.	slažem se		I agree		leech
Dobro došli u našu kuću.	Welcome to our home.	dobro doći		welcome		leech
Nema na čemu, bilo mi je zadovoljstvo.	You're welcome, it was my pleasure.	nema na cemu		no worries		
Skreni desno na&nbsp;sljedećem križanju.	Turn right at the next intersection.	skreni desno		turn right		
Skreni lijevo kod semafora.	Turn left at the traffic light.	skreni lijevo		turn left		
Jaje je potrebno za recept.	An egg is needed for the recipe.	jaje	Neuter	egg		leech
Sir je na stolu.	The cheese is on the table.	sir	Masculine	cheese		
Pij mlijeko za doručak.	Drink milk for breakfast.	mlijeko	Neuter	milk		
Meso je svježe.	The meat is fresh.	meso	Neuter	meat		
Povrće&nbsp;je zdravo za tebe.	Vegetables are healthy for you.	povrce	Neuter	vegetable		
Volim jesti&nbsp;voće za desert.	I love eating fruit for dessert.	vocka	Feminine	fruit		
Ova kost je tvrda.	This bone is hard.	kost	Feminine	bone (for food)		leech
Ulje koristim za kuhanje.	I use oil for cooking.	ulje	Neuter	oil (food)		
Kruh je svjež i topao.	The bread is fresh and warm.	kruh	Masculine	bread		leech
Dodaj šećer u čaj.	Add sugar to the tea.	šecer	Masculine	sugar		
Čokolada je moj omiljeni desert.	Chocolate is my favorite dessert.	cokolada	Feminine	chocolate		
Djeca vole slatkiše.	Children like sweets.	slatkiš	Masculine	candy		leech
Torta je na stolu za rođendan.	The cake is on the table for the birthday.	torta	Feminine	cake		
		piće	Neuter	drink		
Pij vodu svaki dan.	Drink water every day.	voda	Feminine	water		
Mineralna voda je bolja od obične.	Mineral water is better than plain water.	mineralna voda	Feminine	soda water		
Pijem kavu svako jutro.	I drink coffee every morning.	kava	Feminine	coffee		
Čajje topao i mirisan.	The tea is warm and aromatic.	caj	Masculine	tea		
Pivo je hladno i osvježavajuće.	The beer is cold and refreshing.	pivo	Neuter	beer		leech
Volim piti crno vino uz večeru.	I like to drink red wine with dinner.	vino	Neuter	wine		
Salata je svježa i hrskava.	The salad is fresh and crunchy.	salata	Feminine	salad		
Juha je&nbsp;vruća i ukusna.	The soup is hot and tasty.	juha	Feminine	soup		
Za desert imamo voćnu salatu.	For dessert, we have fruit salad.	desert	Masculine	dessert		
Doručak&nbsp;je najvažniji obrok.	Breakfast is the most important meal.	dorucak	Masculine	breakfast		leech
Ručak se poslužuje u 13 sati.	Lunch is served at 1 PM.	ručak	m	lunch		
Večera je pripremljena za 19 sati.	Dinner is prepared for 7 PM.	vecera	Feminine	dinner		
Volim jesti pizzu s dodatkom sira.	I love eating pizza with extra cheese.	pizza	Feminine	pizza		
Autobus polazi u 10 sati.	The bus departs at 10 o'clock.	autobus	Masculine	bus		
Vlak ide prema Zagrebu.	The train is going to Zagreb.	vlak	Masculine	train		
Na željezni?koj stanici ?ekamo vlak.	We are waiting for the train at the railway station.	željeznicka stanica	Feminine	train station		leech
Autobusna postaja je blizu mog doma.	The bus stop is near my home.	autobusna postaja	Feminine	bus stop		
Avion polije?e s aerodroma.	The airplane is taking off from the airport.	avion	Masculine	plane		
Brod plovi prema Italiji.	The ship is sailing to Italy.	brod	Masculine	ship		leech
Kamion prevozi robu.	The truck is transporting goods.	kamion	Masculine	truck/lorry		leech
Vozim bicikl u parku.	I ride a bicycle in the park.	bicikl	Masculine	bicycle		
Motocikl je brz i uzbudljiv.	The motorcycle is fast and exciting.	motocikl	Masculine	motorcycle		
Zvat ?emo taksi za vožnju do hotela.	We will call a taxi to get to the hotel.	taksi	Masculine	taxi		
Semafor je crven, ?ekajmo zeleno.	The traffic light is red, let's wait for green.	semafor	Masculine	traffic light		
Parkiralište je puno automobila.	The parking lot is full of cars.	parkiralište	Neuter	parking lot		
Cesta je skliska zbog kiše.	The road is slippery because of the rain.	cesta	Feminine	road		leech
Kupujem novu odje?u za zimu.	I am buying new clothes for winter.	odjeca	Feminine	clothing		leech
Kupila sam nove cipele za posao.	I bought new shoes for work.	cipela	Feminine	shoe		
Kaput me drži toplim zimi.	The coat keeps me warm in winter.	kaput	Masculine	coat		
Nosim džemper jer je hladno.	I am wearing a sweater because it’s cold.	džemper	Masculine	jumper/sweater		
Košulja je ?ista i peglana.	The shirt is clean and ironed.	košulja	Feminine	shirt		leech
Jakna je crvene boje.	The jacket is red.	jakna	Feminine	jacket		
On nosi odijelo za sastanak.	He is wearing a suit for the meeting.	odijelo	Neuter	suit		leech
Hla?e su mi preduge.	The pants are too long for me.	hlace	Feminine	trousers/pants		leech
Haljina koju nosi je vrlo elegantna.	The dress she is wearing is very elegant.	haljina	Feminine	dress		
U ljetnim mjesecima nosim majice kratkih rukava.	I wear short-sleeve shirts in the summer months.	majica kratkih rukava	Feminine	T-shirt		
Čarape su tople i udobne.	The socks are warm and comfortable.	čarapa	Feminine	sock		
Grudnjak treba biti udoban.	The bra should be comfortable.	grudnjak	Masculine	bra		
Ga?e su nove i udobne.	The underwear is new and comfortable.	gace	Feminine	underpants		leech
Nao?ale mi pomažu da bolje vidim.	Glasses help me see better.	naocale	Feminine	glasses		
Ru?na torbica je na stolu.	The handbag is on the table.	rucna torbica	Feminine	purse/handbag		leech
Torbica je mala i prakti?na.	The small bag is practical.	torbica	Feminine	purse		leech
Nov?anik je pun novca.	The wallet is full of money.	novcanik	Masculine	wallet		leech
On joj je dao prsten za ro?endan.	He gave her a ring for her birthday.	prsten	Masculine	ring		
Šešir je plave boje.	The hat is blue.	šešir	Masculine	hat		leech
Džep na hla?ama je rascijepljen.	The pocket on the pants is torn.	džep	Masculine	pocket		
Proljetno cvije?e je predivno.	The spring flowers are beautiful.	proljece	Neuter	spring (season)		leech
Ljeto je vrijeme za odmor i zabavu.	Summer is a time for rest and fun.	ljeto	Neuter	summer		leech
Jesen donosi lijepe boje liš?a.	Autumn brings beautiful leaf colors.	jesen	Feminine	autumn		leech
Zima je hladna i snježna.	Winter is cold and snowy.	zima	Feminine	winter		
Sije?anj je prvi mjesec u godini.	January is the first month of the year.	sijecanj	Masculine	January		leech
Velja?a je kratki mjesec.	February is a short month.	veljaca	Feminine	February		leech
Ožujak donosi proljetne kiše.	March brings spring rains.	ožujak	Masculine	March		leech
U travnju cvatu mnoge vrste cvije?a.	In April, many types of flowers bloom.	travanj	Masculine	April		leech
Svibanj je poznat po toplim danima.	May is known for its warm days.	svibanj	Masculine	May		leech
Lipanj je mjesec u kojem se po?inje ljetovati.	June is the month when people start vacationing.	lipanj	Masculine	June		leech
Srpanj je najtopliji mjesec u godini.	July is the hottest month of the year.	srpanj	Masculine	July		
Kolovoz je popularan za obiteljska putovanja.	August is popular for family vacations.	kolovoz	Masculine	August		leech
Rujan donosi po?etak škole.	September brings the start of school.	rujan	Masculine	September		leech
Listopad je mjesec berbe grož?a.	October is the month for grape harvest.	listopad	Masculine	October		
Studeni je poznat po hladnom vremenu.	November is known for cold weather.	studeni	Masculine	November		leech
Prosinac je mjesec Boži?a.	December is the month of Christmas.	prosinac	Masculine	December		leech
Kupovina namirnica je završena.	The grocery shopping is done.	kupovina	Feminine	shopping		leech
Molim vas da mi date ra?un za ovu uslugu.	Please give me the bill for this service.	racun	Masculine	bill		leech
Idemo na tržnicu po svježe vo?e.	We are going to the market for fresh fruit.	tržnica	Feminine	market		leech
Kupujemo u supermarketu zbog ve?ih popusta.	We shop at the supermarket for better discounts.	supermarket	Masculine	supermarket		
Zgrada je visoka i moderna.	The building is tall and modern.	zgrada	Feminine	building		
Iznajmljujem stan u centru grada.	I am renting an apartment in the city center.	stan	Masculine	apartment		
Upisao sam se na sveu?ilište prošle godine.	I enrolled in the university last year.	sveucilište	Neuter	university		
Farma ima mnogo životinja i polja.	The farm has many animals and fields.	farma	Feminine	farm		
Crkva je stara i povijesna.	The church is old and historic.	crkva	Feminine	church		
Idemo ve?erati u restoran.	We are going to have dinner at the restaurant.	restoran	Masculine	restaurant		
Pijemo koktele u baru.	We are drinking cocktails at the bar.	bar	Masculine	bar		
Teretana je otvorena 24 sata.	The gym is open 24 hours.	teretana	Feminine	gym		
Zahod je ?ist i uredan.	The bathroom is clean and tidy.	zahod	Masculine	toliet		
Kupio sam kartu za koncert.	I bought a ticket for the concert.	karta	Feminine	map, card, ticket		
Hitna pomo? stigla je brzo.	The emergency service arrived quickly.	hitna pomoc	Feminine	ambulance		leech
Policija istražuje incident.	The police are investigating the incident.	policija	Feminine	police		
Pištolj je zašti?en u sefu.	The gun is secured in the safe.	pištolj	Masculine	gun/pistol		
Vatrogasci su stigli na mjesto nesre?e.	The firefighters arrived at the accident site.	vatrogasci	Masculine	firefighters		
Zemlja je plodna za uzgoj biljaka.	The soil is fertile for growing plants.	zemlja	Feminine	country, land, soil		leech
Živimo u predgra?u grada.	We live in the suburbs of the city.	predgrade	Neuter	suburb		
Selo je mirno i tiho.	The village is quiet and peaceful.	selo	Neuter	village, countryside		leech
Zdravlje je najvažnija stvar u životu.	Health is the most important thing in life.	zdravlje	Neuter	health		leech
Medicina pomaže u lije?enju bolesti.	Medicine helps in treating illnesses.	medicina	Feminine	medicine		
Nesre?a se dogodila ujutro.	The accident happened in the morning.	nesreca	Feminine	accident		
Pacijent ?eka u ?ekaonici.	The patient is waiting in the waiting room.	pacijent	Masculine	patient		
Operacija je uspješno završena.	The operation was successfully completed.	operacija	Feminine	operation, surgery		
Tablete uzimam prema uputama lije?nika.	I take the tablets according to the doctor's instructions.	tableta	Feminine	pill		
Groznica je znak da je tijelo borilo se protiv bolesti.	Fever is a sign that the body is fighting an illness.	groznica	Feminine	fever		leech
Prehlada uzrokuje curenje nosa.	A cold causes a runny nose.	prehlada	Feminine	cold (sickness)		leech
Rana treba biti pravilno tretirana.	The wound needs to be properly treated.	rana	Feminine	wound		leech
Zakazani pregled je za sutra.	The scheduled appointment is for tomorrow.	zakazani pregled	Masculine	scheduled appointment 		
Kašalj može biti simptom prehlade.	A cough can be a symptom of a cold.	kašalj	Masculine	cough		leech
Imate bolove u vratu?	Do you have pain in your neck?	vrat	Masculine	neck		leech
Stražnjica je osjetljiva nakon treninga.	The buttocks are sore after the workout.	stražnjica	Feminine	buttocks		leech
Rame me boli nakon nesre?e.	My shoulder hurts after the accident.	rame	Neuter	shoulder		leech
Koljeno je nate?eno.	The knee is swollen.	koljeno	Neuter	knee		leech
Noga je slomljena.	The leg is broken.	noga	Feminine	leg		
Trbuh me boli zbog probavnih problema.	My stomach hurts due to digestive issues.	trbuh	Masculine	belly		
Doktor pregledava dojke na redovnom pregledu.	The doctor examines the breasts during a routine check-up.	dojka	Feminine	bosom/breast		
Leđa su mi bolna nakon dugog sjedenja.	My back hurts after sitting for a long time.	leđa	Feminine	back (anatomy)		
Imati zdrav zub je važno za cjelokupno zdravlje.	Having healthy teeth is important for overall health.	zub	Masculine	tooth		leech
Jezik mi je okusa gorak.	My tongue tastes bitter.	jezik	Masculine	tongue		leech
Usne su mi suhe zbog zime.	My lips are dry because of the winter.	usna	Feminine	lip		leech
Prst je povrije?en u nesre?i.	The finger is injured in the accident.	prst	Masculine	finger		
Nožni prst me boli nakon udarca.	The toe hurts after being hit.	nožni prst	Masculine	toe		leech
Želudac me boli nakon obroka.	My stomach hurts after the meal.	želudac	Masculine	stomach		leech
Pušenje može oštetiti plu?a.	Smoking can damage the lungs.	pluca	Feminine	lung		leech
Jetra pomaže u probavi hrane.	The liver helps in digesting food.	jetra	Feminine	liver		
Živci su važni za slanje signala tijelu.	Nerves are important for sending signals to the body.	živac	Masculine	nerve		
Bubreg je važan za filtriranje krvi.	The kidney is important for filtering blood.	bubreg	Masculine	kidney		leech
Crijeva pomažu u probavi hrane.	The intestines help in digesting food.	crijeva	Neuter	intestine		
Koja je boja ove haljine?	What is the color of this dress?	boja	Feminine	color		
Zid je narancast boje.	The wall is orange in color.	narancast		orange (color)	narancast, narancasta, narancasto, narancasti, narancastiji, najnarancastiji	
Nebo je sivo danas.	The sky is gray today.	siv		gray	siv, siva, sivo, sivi, sivlji, najsivlji	leech
Kava je sme?a boje.	The coffee is brown in color.	smed		brown	smed, smeda, smede, smedi, smediji, najsmediji	
Cvijet je ruži?ast i lijep.	The flower is pink and beautiful.	ružicast		pink	ružicast, ružicasta, ružicasto, ružicasti, ružicastiji, najružicastiji	
Film je bio dosadan i neinteresantan.	The movie was boring and uninteresting.	dosadan		boring	dosadan, dosadna, dosadno, dosadni, dosadniji, najdosadniji	leech
Ova knjiga je lagana za ?itanje.	This book is easy to read.	lagan		light, easy	lagan, lagana, lagano, lagani, laganiji, najlaganiji	
Osje?am se usamljen kada nitko nije kod ku?e.	I feel lonely when no one is at home.	usamljen		lonely	usamljen, usamljena, usamljeno, usamljeni, usamljeniji, najusamljeniji	leech
Gladna sam, trebam nešto za jesti.	I am hungry, I need something to eat.	gladan		hungry	gladan, gladna, gladno, gladni, gladniji, najgladniji	
Žedan sam, želim vodu.	I am thirsty, I want water.	žedan		thirsty	žedan, žedna, žedno, žedni, žedniji, najžedniji	leech
On je tužan zbog gubitka.	He is sad about the loss.	tužan		sad	tužan, tužna, tužno, tužni, tužniji, najtužniji	leech
Staza je vrlo strma i teška za hodanje.	The path is very steep and difficult to walk.	strm		steep	strm, strma, strmo, strmi, strmiji, najstrmiji	
Stol je ?etvrtast.	The table is square.	cetvrtast		square (adjective)	cetvrtast, cetvrtasta, cetvrtasto, cetvrtasti, cetvrtastiji, najcetvrtastiji	
Ulica je uska i mala.	The street is narrow and small.	uzak		narrow	uzak, uska, usko, uski, uži, najuži	leech
Ovaj most je širok i dug.	This bridge is wide and long.	širok		broad/wide	širok, široka, široko, široki, širi, najširi	leech
Rijeka je duboka i brza.	The river is deep and fast.	dubok		deep	dubok, duboka, duboko, duboki, dublji, najdublji	leech
Jezero je plitko, idealno za djecu.	The lake is shallow, ideal for children.	plitak		shallow	plitak, plitka, plitko, plitki, plici, najplici	leech
Ku?a je ogroman i impresivan.	The house is enormous and impressive.	ogroman		huge	ogroman, ogromna, ogromno, ogromni, ogromniji, najogromniji	leech
Putujemo na sjever prema planinama.	We are traveling north towards the mountains.	sjever		north		leech
Sunce izlazi na istoku.	The sun rises in the east.	istok		east		
Vjetar dolazi s juga.	The wind is coming from the south.	jug		south		
Zalazak sunca je na zapadu.	The sunset is in the west.	zapad		west		leech
Ruke su prljave nakon rada u vrtu.	The hands are dirty after working in the garden.	prljav		dirty	prljav, prljava, prljavo, prljavi, prljaviji, najprljaviji	leech
Ova soba je ?ista i uredna.	This room is clean and tidy.	cist		clean	cist, cista, cisto, cisti, cišci, najcišci	
Torba je puna knjiga.	The bag is full of books.	pun		full (not empty)	pun, puna, puno, puni, puniji, najpuniji	leech
Stoli? je prazan.	The table is empty.	prazan		empty	prazan, prazna, prazno, prazni, prazniji, najprazniji	leech
Ovaj telefon je skup.	This phone is expensive.	skup		expensive	skup, skupa, skupo, skupi, skuplji, najskuplji	leech
Ova haljina je jeftina.	This dress is cheap.	jeftin		cheap	jeftin, jeftina, jeftino, jeftini, jeftiniji, najjeftiniji	leech
Ispod kreveta je taman.	It is dark under the bed.	taman		dark (color)	taman, tamna, tamno, tamni, tamniji, najtamniji	leech
Stan je svijetao i sun?an.	The apartment is bright and sunny.	svijetao		light (color)	svijetao, svijetla, svijetlo, svijetli, svjetliji, najsvjetliji	leech
Ona izgleda seksi u toj haljini.	She looks sexy in that dress.	seksi		sexy	seksi, seksi, seksi, seksi, više seksi, najviše seksi	
On je lijen i ne želi raditi.	He is lazy and doesn’t want to work.	lijen		lazy	lijen, lijena, lijeno, lijeni, ljeniji, najljeniji	leech
On je hrabar i suo?ava se sa svojim strahovima.	He is brave and faces his fears.	hrabar		brave	hrabar, hrabra, hrabro, hrabri, hrabriji, najhrabriji	
On je velikodušan i uvijek pomaže drugima.	He is generous and always helps others.	velikodušan		generous	velikodušan, velikodušna, velikodušno, velikodušni, velikodušniji, najvelikodušniji	
On je zgodan i šarmantan.	He is handsome and charming.	zgodan		handsome	zgodan, zgodna, zgodno, zgodni, zgodniji, najzgodniji	
Taj pas je ružan, ali ljubazan.	That dog is ugly but friendly.	ružan		ugly	ružan, ružna, ružno, ružni, ružniji, najružniji	leech
On je luckast i ?esto smiješan.	He is quirky and often funny.	luckast		silly	luckast, luckasta, luckasto, luckasti, luckastiji, najluckastiji	leech
On je ljubazan i pomaže svima.	He is polite and helps everyone.	ljubazan		friendly	ljubazan, ljubazna, ljubazno, ljubazni, ljubazniji, najljubazniji	leech
On je kriv za nesre?u.	He is guilty for the accident.	kriv		guilty	kriv, kriva, krivo, krivi, krivlji, najkrivlji	leech
On je slijep i koristi bijelu štap.	He is blind and uses a white cane.	slijep		blind	slijep, slijepa, slijepo, slijepi, -, -	leech
On je pijan nakon zabave.	He is drunk after the party.	pijan		drunk	pijan, pijana, pijano, pijani, pijaniji, najpijaniji	leech
Kišnica ?ini tlo mokrim.	The rain makes the ground wet.	mokar		wet	mokar, mokra, mokro, mokri, mokriji, najmokriji	leech
Tlo je suho nakon dugog sušnog razdoblja.	The ground is dry after a long dry period.	suh		dry	suh, suha, suho, suhi, suši, najsuši	leech
Danas je topao i sun?an dan.	Today is a warm and sunny day.	topao		warm	topao, topla, toplo, topli, topliji, najtopliji	
Radios je glasan, ne mogu spavati.	The radio is loud, I can't sleep.	glasan		loud	glasan, glasna, glasno, glasni, glasniji, najglasniji	
Oni su mirni i spokojni.	They are calm and peaceful.	miran		calm	miran, mirna, mirno, mirni, mirniji, najmirniji	leech
Ulica je tiha u no?i.	The street is quiet at night.	tih		silent	tih, tiha, tiho, tihi, tiši, najtiši	
Kuhinja je mjesto gdje kuhamo obroke.	The kitchen is where we cook meals.	kuhinja	Feminine	kitchen		
Kupaonica je velika i ima kadu.	The bathroom is big and has a bathtub.	kupaonica	Feminine	bathroom		leech
Dnevni boravak je ugodan za druženje.	The living room is comfortable for socializing.	dnevni boravak	Masculine	living room		leech
Spava?a soba je mirna i opuštaju?a.	The bedroom is quiet and relaxing.	spavaca soba	Feminine	bedroom		leech
Vrt je pun cvije?a i povr?a.	The garden is full of flowers and vegetables.	vrt	Masculine	garden		
Parkirali smo auto u garažu.	We parked the car in the garage.	garaža	Feminine	garage		
Zidovi sobe su obojeni u plavu.	The walls of the room are painted blue.	zid	Masculine	wall		leech
Imamo spremište u podrumu.	We have storage in the basement.	podrum	Masculine	basement		leech
Stube vode do gornjeg kata.	The stairs lead to the upper floor.	stube	Feminine	stairs		
Krov ku?e treba popravak.	The roof of the house needs repair.	krov	Masculine	roof		leech
Prozor je otvoren za svjež zrak.	The window is open for fresh air.	prozor	Masculine	window (building)		leech
Nož je oštar i dobro reže.	The knife is sharp and cuts well.	nož	Masculine	knife		leech
Popijem kavu iz šalice.	I drink coffee from a cup.	šalica	Feminine	cup		
?aša je napunjena vodom.	The glass is filled with water.	caša	Feminine	glass (for drinks?)		leech
Stavim hranu na tanjur.	I put the food on the plate.	tanjur	Masculine	plate		leech
Bacim otpad u kantu za sme?e.	I throw the trash in the garbage can.	kanta za smece	Feminine	garbage bin		leech
Juha je u zdjeli.	The soup is in the bowl.	zdjela	Feminine	bowl		leech
Gledamo film na televizoru.	We watch a movie on the television.	televizor	Masculine	TV		
Radim na radnom stolu.	I work at the desk.	radni stol	Masculine	desk		leech
Krevet je udoban za spavanje.	The bed is comfortable for sleeping.	krevet	Masculine	bed		
Ogledalo je na zidu iznad umivaonika.	The mirror is on the wall above the sink.	ogledalo	Neuter	mirror		leech
Tuš je u kupaonici.	The shower is in the bathroom.	tuš	Masculine	shower		
Kau? je velik i udoban.	The couch is big and comfortable.	kauc	Masculine	sofa		
Slika visi na zidu.	The picture is hanging on the wall.	slika	Feminine	picture		
Stol je prepun knjiga.	The table is covered with books.	stol	Masculine	table		leech
Stolica je udobna za sjedenje.	The chair is comfortable to sit on.	stolica	Feminine	chair		leech
Plivamo u bazenu.	We swim in the pool.	bazen	Masculine	swimming pool		
Zvono na vratima zvoni.	The doorbell rings.	zvono	Neuter	bell		
Susjed je ljubazan i pomaže.	The neighbor is friendly and helpful.	susjed	Masculine	neighbor		leech
On je podbacio u svom nastupu.	He failed in his performance.	podbaciti		to fail		
Morate izabrati boju zida.	You need to choose the wall color.	izabrati		to choose		leech
Puška može pucati jako glasno.	The gun can shoot very loudly.	pucati		to shoot		leech
Glasovanje je sutra.	Voting is tomorrow.	glasovati		to vote		
Možeš pasti s bicikla ako ne paziš.	You can fall off the bike if you're not careful.	pasti		to fall		
Trebamo braniti našu zemlju.	We need to defend our country.	braniti		to defend		
On može napasti ako se osjeti ugroženim.	He may attack if he feels threatened.	napasti		to attack		leech
Neko je ukrao moj nov?anik.	Someone stole my wallet.	ukrasti		to steal		
Vatra može gorjeti cijelu no?.	The fire can burn all night.	gorjeti		to burn		
Lije?nik je uspio spasiti pacijenta.	The doctor managed to save the patient.	spasiti		rescue		leech
Pušenje može biti štetno za zdravlje.	Smoking can be harmful to health.	pušiti		to smoke		leech
Ptice mogu letjeti visoko u zraku.	Birds can fly high in the air.	letjeti		to fly		
Ona nosi crvenu torbu.	She is carrying a red bag.	nositi		to carry		leech
On pljune kada se ljuti.	He spits when he is angry.	pljuvati		to spit		leech
On može udariti nogom u loptu.	He can kick the ball.	udariti nogom		to kick		
Pas voli gristi igra?ke.	The dog likes to chew toys.	gristi		to bite		leech
Moramo disati duboko za opuštanje.	We need to breathe deeply for relaxation.	disati		to breathe		leech
Cvijet lijepo miriše.	The flower smells nice.	mirisati		to smell		leech
Djeca plaku kad su tužna.	Children cry when they are sad.	plakati		to cry		leech
Volim pjevati dok radim.	I love to sing while I work.	pjevati		to sing		leech
Ona se smiješi dok gleda film.	She smiles while watching the movie.	smiješiti se		to smile		
Oni se smiju na šalu.	They laugh at the joke.	smijati se		to laugh		leech
Djeca brzo rastu.	Children grow up quickly.	rasti		to grow		leech
Trebam smanjiti brzinu.	I need to reduce the speed.	smanjiti		to reduce, lessen, make smaller		leech
Oni se ?esto sva?aju zbog sitnica.	They often argue over trivial things.	svadati se		to argue		leech
On prijeti ako ne dobijemo rezultat.	He threatens if we don’t get the result.	prijetiti		to threaten		leech
Moramo dijeliti kola?e ravnomjerno.	We need to share the cakes evenly.	dijeliti		to share		leech
Moramo hraniti ma?ku svaki dan.	We need to feed the cat every day.	hraniti		to feed		leech
Ne možeš kriti svoje osje?aje.	You can’t hide your feelings.	kriti		to hide		leech
Moram upozoriti te na opasnost.	I need to warn you about the danger.	upozoriti		to warn		leech
Djeca vole plivati u bazenu.	Children love to swim in the pool.	plivati		to swim		
Oni se vole skakati na trampolinu.	They love to jump on the trampoline.	skakati		to jump		
Lopta se kotrlja niz brdo.	The ball rolls down the hill.	kotrljati se		to roll		
On pomaže dizati teške kutije.	He helps lift the heavy boxes.	dizati		to lift		leech
Trebam kopati u vrtu.	I need to dig in the garden.	kopati		to dig		leech
Moram kopirati dokumente za sastanak.	I need to copy the documents for the meeting.	kopirati		to copy		
Kurir ?e dostaviti paket sutra.	The courier will deliver the package tomorrow.	dostaviti		to deliver		
On traži svoj klju?eve.	He is looking for his keys.	tražiti		to look for		leech
Ona vježba svaki dan u teretani.	She exercises every day at the gym.	vježbati		to practice		leech
Oni vole putovati u egzoti?na mjesta.	They love to travel to exotic places.	putovati		to travel		leech
On voli slikati pejzaže.	He likes to paint landscapes.	slikati		to paint		
Nakon tr?anja se tuširam.	I shower after running.	tuširati se		to take a shower		
Ne zaboravi zaklju?ati vrata.	Don’t forget to lock the door.	zakljucati		to lock		leech
Moram prati ruke prije jela.	I need to wash my hands before eating.	prati		to wash		leech
Svaki dan se molimo za zdravlje.	We pray every day for health.	moliti se		to pray		leech
Ona kuha ve?eru za obitelj.	She cooks dinner for the family.	kuhati		to cook		
?itam zanimljivu knjigu.	I’m reading an interesting book.	knjiga	Feminine	book		
Idemo u knjižnicu da posudimo knjige.	We are going to the library to borrow books.	knjižnica	Feminine	library		leech
Moraš završiti doma?u zada?u za sutra.	You need to finish the homework for tomorrow.	domaca zadaca	Feminine	homework		
Polagao je ispit iz matematike.	He took a math exam.	ispit	Masculine	exam		
Danas imamo lekciju iz engleskog.	Today we have an English lesson.	lekcija	Feminine	lesson		
Znanost pomaže razumjeti svijet.	Science helps us understand the world.	znanost	Feminine	science		
Povijest je zanimljiva tema.	History is an interesting subject.	povijest	Feminine	history		leech
Umjetnost može biti vrlo inspirativna.	Art can be very inspiring.	umjetnost	Feminine	art		leech
U?imo engleski jezik u školi.	We are learning English at school.	engleski	Masculine	English		
Trebam olovku za pisanje.	I need a pencil for writing.	olovka	Feminine	pen		leech
On je prvi na listi.	He is first on the list.	prvi		first		leech
Ona je druga u klasi.	She is second in the class.	drugi		2nd		
Oni su tre?i na natjecanju.	They are third in the competition.	treci		third		
On je ?etvrti na popisu.	He is fourth on the list.	cetvrti		fourth		
Rezultat ispita je bio odli?an.	The exam result was excellent.	rezultat	Masculine	result		
Kvadrat ima ?etiri stranice.	A square has four sides.	kvadrat	Masculine	square (shape)		
Krug je oblika kao kolo.	A circle is round like a wheel.	krug	Masculine	circle		leech
Površina stola je drvena.	The surface of the table is wooden.	površina	Feminine	area		leech
Istraživanje je važno za napredak.	Research is important for progress.	istraživanje	Neuter	research		
Dobio je diplomu nakon završenih studija.	He received a diploma after finishing his studies.	diploma	Feminine	degree		
On je prvostupnik iz biologije.	He is a bachelor in biology.	prvostupnik		bachelor (degree)		leech
Ona radi na svom magisteriju.	She is working on her master’s degree.	magisterij	Masculine	master (degree)		
Stres može utjecati na zdravlje.	Stress can affect health.	stres	Masculine	stress		
Osiguranje je potrebno za sigurnost.	Insurance is necessary for safety.	osiguranje	Neuter	insurance		
Osoblje u hotelu je vrlo ljubazno.	The hotel staff is very friendly.	osoblje	Neuter	staff		
Radim u odjelu za ljudske resurse.	I work in the human resources department.	odjel	Masculine	department		leech
Broj x je manji od broja y.	Number x is smaller than number y.	x je manji od y		x < y		
Broj x je ve?i od broja y.	Number x is greater than number y.	x je veci od y		x > y		
Njegova pla?a je vrlo dobra.	His salary is very good.	placa	Feminine	salary		leech
Moram znati tvoju adresu.	I need to know your address.	adresa	Feminine	address		
Poslao sam ti pismo.	I sent you a letter.	pismo	Neuter	letter (mail)		leech
Kapetan broda je stru?an.	The ship's captain is skilled.	kapetan	Masculine	captain		
Detektiv istražuje zlo?in.	The detective is investigating the crime.	detektiv	Masculine	detective		
On je pilot komercijalnog aviona.	He is a commercial airplane pilot.	pilot	Masculine	pilot		
Profesor predaje matematiku.	The professor teaches mathematics.	profesor	Masculine	professor		
U?itelj objašnjava lekciju.	The teacher explains the lesson.	ucitelj	Masculine	teacher		leech
Odvjetnik brani klijenta na sudu.	The lawyer defends the client in court.	odvjetnik	Masculine	lawyer		leech
Tajnica pomaže u organizaciji.	The secretary helps with organization.	tajnica	Feminine	secretary		
Asistent pomaže profesoru.	The assistant helps the professor.	asistent	Masculine	assistant		
Sudac donosi odluke na su?enju.	The judge makes decisions in court.	sudac	Masculine	judge		leech
Direktor upravlja tvrtkom.	The director manages the company.	direktor	Masculine	director (business)		
Upravitelj vodi cijeli odjel.	The manager oversees the entire department.	upravitelj	Masculine	manager		leech
Kuhar priprema obrok za goste.	The cook prepares meals for guests.	kuhar	Masculine	cook		
Voza? taksija nas je odvezao do hotela.	The taxi driver took us to the hotel.	vozac taksija	Masculine	taxi driver		
Voza? autobusa vozi putnike do stanice.	The bus driver takes passengers to the station.	vozac autobusa	Masculine	bus driver		
Kriminalac je uhva?en nakon plja?ke.	The criminal was caught after the robbery.	kriminalac	Masculine	criminal		
Ona je model za modnu reviju.	She is a model for a fashion show.	model	Masculine	model (fashion)		
Umjetnik stvara prekrasne slike.	The artist creates beautiful paintings.	umjetnik	Masculine	artist		
Trebam tvoj telefonski broj.	I need your phone number.	telefonski broj	Masculine	telephone number		
Nema signala u ovom podru?ju.	There is no signal in this area.	signal	Masculine	signal (phone)		
Instalirao sam novu aplikaciju na svom telefonu.	I installed a new app on my phone.	aplikacija	Feminine	app		
Razgovaramo preko chata.	We are chatting online.	chat	Masculine	chat		
Spremi datoteku na ra?unalo.	Save the file on the computer.	datoteka	Feminine	file		
Poslao sam ti URL za stranicu.	I sent you the URL for the page.	URL	Masculine	URL		
Poslao sam e-mail s detaljima.	I sent an email with the details.	e-mail	Masculine	email		
Ova stranica je vrlo korisna.	This page is very useful.	stranica	Feminine	page		leech
Zakon treba poštovati.	The law should be respected.	zakon	Masculine	law		leech
On je otišao u zatvor zbog prekršaja.	He went to jail for the offense.	zatvor	Masculine	prison		leech
Potrebno je pružiti dokaz.	Proof needs to be provided.	dokaz	Masculine	evidence		leech
Kazna za prekršaj je visoka.	The fine for the offense is high.	kazna	Feminine	fine		leech
Svjedok je dao važan iskaz.	The witness gave an important testimony.	svjedok	Masculine	witness		leech
Sud je odlu?io u korist optuženika.	The court ruled in favor of the defendant.	sud	Masculine	court		leech
Trebam tvoj potpis na dokumentu.	I need your signature on the document.	potpis	Masculine	signature		leech
Gubitak u igri nije bio velik.	The loss in the game wasn’t significant.	gubitak	Masculine	loss		
Tvrtka je ostvarila veliki profit.	The company made a large profit.	profit	Masculine	profit		
Kupac je tražio popust.	The customer asked for a discount.	kupac	Masculine	customer		leech
Ukupni iznos ra?una je stotinu kuna.	The total amount of the bill is one hundred kuna.	iznos	Masculine	amount		leech
Ponesi kreditnu karticu za kupovinu.	Bring a credit card for the purchase.	kreditna kartica	Feminine	credit card		
Lozinka mora biti sigurna.	The password must be secure.	lozinka	Feminine	password		
Koristio sam bankomat za podizanje novca.	I used the ATM to withdraw money.	bankomat	Masculine	ATM		
Struja u ovom dijelu zgrade nije dostupna.	The electricity is out in this part of the building.	struja	Feminine	power		
Kamera snima videozapis.	The camera records the video.	kamera	Feminine	camera		
Slušamo radio u automobilu.	We listen to the radio in the car.	radio	Masculine	radio		
Kupio sam poklon za ro?endan.	I bought a gift for the birthday.	poklon	Masculine	gift		
Popij vodu iz boce.	Drink water from the bottle.	boca	Feminine	bottle		
Stavila sam stvari u vre?icu.	I put the items in the bag.	vrecica	Feminine	bag		leech
Gdje je moj klju??	Where is my key?	kljuc	Masculine	key		
Djevoj?ica igra s lutkom.	The girl plays with the doll.	lutka	Feminine	doll		leech
On je mislio da je vidio an?ela.	He thought he saw an angel.	andeo	Masculine	angel		
Trebam ?ešalj za kosu.	I need a comb for my hair.	cešalj	Masculine	comb		leech
Koristim pastu za zube svaki dan.	I use toothpaste every day.	pasta za zube / zubna pasta	Feminine	toothpaste		
Ne zaboravi ?etkicu za zube.	Don’t forget the toothbrush.	cetkica za zube / zubna cetkica	Feminine	toothbrush		
Koristim šampon za pranje kose.	I use shampoo to wash my hair.	šampon	Masculine	shampoo		
Nanašam kremu na lice svake ve?eri.	I apply cream to my face every evening.	krema	Feminine	cream (lotion)		
Ponesi maramicu za brisanje ruku.	Bring a napkin to wipe your hands.	maramica	Feminine	tissue		leech
Kupila sam novi ruž.	I bought a new lipstick.	ruž	Masculine	lipstick		
Idemo u kino gledati film.	We are going to the cinema to watch a movie.	kino	Neuter	cinema		
Gledam vijesti na televiziji.	I watch the news on TV.	vijesti	Feminine	news		leech
Sjedalo u autobusu je udobno.	The seat in the bus is comfortable.	sjedalo	Neuter	seat		
Kupio sam ulaznicu za koncert.	I bought a ticket for the concert.	ulaznica	Feminine	ticket		
Umjetnik slika na platnu.	The artist paints on the canvas.	platno	Neuter	screen, canvas		leech
Volim slušati glazbu dok radim.	I love listening to music while working.	glazba	Feminine	music		
Pozornica je velika i lijepo ukrašena.	The stage is large and beautifully decorated.	pozornica	Feminine	stage		leech
Publika je pljeskala nakon nastupa.	The audience applauded after the performance.	publika	Feminine	audience		
Slikanje je njezina strast.	Painting is her passion.	slikanje	Neuter	painting		
Ispri?aj mi neki vic.	Tell me a joke.	vic	Masculine	joke		leech
?itam ?lanak u novinama.	I am reading an article in the newspaper.	clanak	Masculine	article		leech
Novine su pune vijesti.	The newspapers are full of news.	novine	Feminine	newspaper		leech
Kupio sam novi ?asopis.	I bought a new magazine.	casopis	Masculine	magazine		leech
Reklama za novi proizvod je na televiziji.	The advertisement for the new product is on TV.	reklama	Feminine	advertisement		leech
Priroda je vrlo lijepa u ovom parku.	Nature is very beautiful in this park.	priroda	Feminine	nature		
Nakon roštilja ostaje pepeo.	Ash remains after the barbecue.	pepeo	Masculine	ash		
Vatra je jako vru?a.	The fire is very hot.	vatra	Feminine	fire		leech
Dijamant je dragocjen.	A diamond is precious.	dijamant	Masculine	diamond		
Sunce sije jako danas.	The sun is shining brightly today.	sunce	Neuter	sun		
No?u gledamo zvijezde na nebu.	At night we watch the stars in the sky.	zvijezda	Feminine	star		leech
Zemlja je planet u Sun?evom sustavu.	Earth is a planet in the solar system.	planet	Masculine	planet		
Svemir je beskona?an.	The universe is infinite.	svemir	Masculine	universe		leech
Prošetali smo uz obalu mora.	We walked along the shore of the sea.	obala	Feminine	coast		leech
Jezero je hladno i ?isto.	The lake is cold and clear.	jezero	Neuter	lake		leech
Šuma je puna divljih životinja.	The forest is full of wild animals.	šuma	Feminine	forest		
Pustinja je suha i vru?a.	The desert is dry and hot.	pustinja	Feminine	desert (location)		leech
Brdo je visoko i strmo.	The hill is tall and steep.	brdo	Neuter	hill		
Stijena je vrlo ?vrsta.	The rock is very hard.	stijena	Feminine	rock (stone)		
Rijeka te?e kroz grad.	The river flows through the city.	rijeka	Feminine	river		
Dolina je prekrivena zelenilom.	The valley is covered in greenery.	dolina	Feminine	valley		leech
Planina je prekrivena snijegom.	The mountain is covered in snow.	planina	Feminine	mountain		
Otok je udaljen od kopna.	The island is far from the mainland.	otok	Masculine	island		leech
Ocean je dubok i plavetn.	The ocean is deep and blue.	ocean	Masculine	ocean		
More je mirno danas.	The sea is calm today.	more	Neuter	sea		
Led se topi na suncu.	The ice melts in the sun.	led	Masculine	ice		
Snijeg pokriva cijeli grad.	Snow covers the whole city.	snijeg	Masculine	snow		
Oluja je uzrokovala štetu.	The storm caused damage.	oluja	Feminine	storm		leech
Kiša pada cijeli dan.	It’s raining all day.	kiša	Feminine	rain		
Vjetar je snažan i hladan.	The wind is strong and cold.	vjetar	Masculine	wind		
Ova biljka treba puno svjetla.	This plant needs a lot of light.	biljka	Feminine	plant		leech
Stablo u vrtu je vrlo staro.	The tree in the garden is very old.	stablo	Neuter	tree		
Trava u parku je zelena i svježa.	The grass in the park is green and fresh.	trava	Feminine	grass		leech
Ruža u vrtu je crvena.	The rose in the garden is red.	ruža	Feminine	rose		
Cvijet je predivan.	The flower is beautiful.	cvijet	Masculine	flower		
Plin je izvor energije za kuhanje.	Gas is a source of energy for cooking.	plin	Masculine	gas		leech
Metal je ?vrst i izdržljiv.	Metal is solid and durable.	metal	Masculine	metal		
Zlato je skupo i sjajno.	Gold is expensive and shiny.	zlato	Neuter	gold		
Srebro se koristi za izradu nakita.	Silver is used for making jewelry.	srebro	Neuter	silver		
Proslavili smo praznik s obitelji.	We celebrated the holiday with family.	praznik	Masculine	holiday		
On je ?lan kluba.	He is a member of the club.	clan	Masculine	member		leech
Smjestili smo se u hotelu.	We stayed at the hotel.	hotel	Masculine	hotel		
Plaža je prepuna turista.	The beach is full of tourists.	plaža	Feminine	beach		
Imamo goste na ve?eri.	We have guests for dinner.	gost	Masculine	guest		
Proslavili smo ro?endan mog brata.	We celebrated my brother’s birthday.	rodendan	Masculine	birthday		leech
Boži? je omiljeni blagdan.	Christmas is a favorite holiday.	Božic	Masculine	christmas		
Nova godina po?inje sutra.	The New Year starts tomorrow.	Nova godina	Feminine	New Year		
Uskrs je važan krš?anski blagdan.	Easter is an important Christian holiday.	Uskrs	Masculine	Easter		
Moj ujak dolazi u posjet.	My uncle is coming to visit.	ujak	Masculine	uncle		
Teta mi pomaže s doma?im zadacima.	My aunt helps me with homework.	teta	Feminine	aunt		
Baka pravi najbolje kola?e.	Grandma makes the best cakes.	baka	Feminine	grandmother (paternal and maternal)		
Djed pri?a zanimljive pri?e.	Grandpa tells interesting stories.	djed	Masculine	grandfather (paternal)		leech
Smrt je prirodan dio života.	Death is a natural part of life.	smrt	Feminine	death		
Posjetili smo grob naših predaka.	We visited the graves of our ancestors.	grob	Masculine	grave		
Razvod može biti emotivno težak.	Divorce can be emotionally difficult.	razvod	Masculine	divorce		leech
Mladenka je nosila predivnu haljinu.	The bride wore a beautiful dress.	mladenka	Feminine	bride		
Mladoženja je bio sretan i uzbu?en.	The groom was happy and excited.	mladoženja	Masculine	groom		leech
Tigar je snažna i opasna životinja.	The tiger is a strong and dangerous animal.	tigar	Masculine	tiger		
Miš je mali glodavac.	A mouse is a small rodent.	miš	Masculine	mouse		leech
Štakor je ve?i od miša.	A rat is bigger than a mouse.	štakor	Masculine	rat		
Zec skaku?e po livadi.	The rabbit hops across the meadow.	zec	Masculine	rabbit		leech
Lav je kralj životinja.	The lion is the king of animals.	lav	Masculine	lion		leech
Magarac je koristan za prijevoz tereta.	The donkey is useful for carrying loads.	magarac	Masculine	donkey		leech
Slon je najve?a kopnena životinja.	The elephant is the largest land animal.	slon	Masculine	elephant		
Ptice lete visoko na nebu.	Birds fly high in the sky.	ptica	Feminine	bird		
Pijetao pjeva rano ujutro.	The rooster crows early in the morning.	pijetao	Masculine	rooster		leech
Golubovi su simbol mira.	Doves are a symbol of peace.	golub	Masculine	pigeon		
Guska se nalazi na farmi.	The goose is on the farm.	guska	Feminine	goose		
Kukci su važni za ekosustav.	Insects are important for the ecosystem.	kukac	Masculine	insect		leech
Buba se skriva pod kamenjem.	The beetle hides under the stone.	buba	Feminine	bug		leech
Komarci mogu biti vrlo dosadni.	Mosquitoes can be very annoying.	komarac	Masculine	mosquito		leech
Muha leti oko hrane.	The fly is buzzing around the food.	muha	Feminine	fly		leech
Mravi grade mravinjake.	Ants build anthills.	mrav	Masculine	ant		
Kitovi su najve?i sisavci u oceanu.	Whales are the largest mammals in the ocean.	kit	Masculine	whale		
Morski pas može biti opasan.	The shark can be dangerous.	morski pas	Masculine	shark		
Dupini su prijateljski nastrojeni.	Dolphins are friendly.	dupin	Masculine	dolphin		
Puževi se kre?u vrlo sporo.	Snails move very slowly.	puž	Masculine	snail		leech
Žabe ska?u po mo?varama.	Frogs jump in the swamps.	žaba	Feminine	frog		leech
Dolazim ovdje ?esto.	I come here often.	cesto		often		leech
Do?i odmah!	Come immediately!	odmah		immediately		
Sve se dogodilo odjednom.	Everything happened at once.	odjednom		suddenly		
Iako je hladno, izlazimo van.	Although it’s cold, we’re going outside.	iako		although		
Gimnastika je odli?an na?in za vježbanje.	Gymnastics is a great way to exercise.	gimnastika	Feminine	gymnastics		
Igramo tenis u parku.	We play tennis in the park.	tenis	Masculine	tennis		
Tr?anje je dobro za zdravlje.	Running is good for your health.	trcanje	Neuter	running		
Biciklizam je popularan sport u mnogim zemljama.	Cycling is a popular sport in many countries.	biciklizam	Masculine	cycling		
Golferi ?esto igraju golf na velikim terenima.	Golfers often play on large courses.	golf	Masculine	golf		
Klizanje na ledu je zabavna zimska aktivnost.	Ice skating is a fun winter activity.	klizanje na ledu	Neuter	ice skating		
Nogomet je najpopularniji sport u svijetu.	Soccer is the most popular sport in the world.	nogomet	Masculine	football		
Košarka se igra s loptom i koševima.	Basketball is played with a ball and hoops.	košarka	Feminine	basketball		
Plivanje je odli?an na?in za vježbanje cijelog tijela.	Swimming is a great full-body workout.	plivanje	Neuter	swimming		leech
Ronjenje je zanimljivo istraživanje podvodnog svijeta.	Diving is an interesting exploration of the underwater world.	ronjenje	Neuter	diving		leech
Planinarenje pruža prekrasne poglede na prirodu.	Hiking offers beautiful views of nature.	planinarenje	Neuter	hiking		
Ujedinjeno Kraljevstvo je poznato po svojoj povijesti.	The United Kingdom is known for its history.	Ujedinjeno Kraljevstvo	Neuter	United Kingdom		
Španjolska ima prekrasne plaže i ukusnu hranu.	Spain has beautiful beaches and delicious food.	Španjolska	Feminine	Spain		
Švicarska je poznata po svojim planinama i satovima.	Switzerland is known for its mountains and watches.	Švicarska	Feminine	Switzerland		
Italija je poznata po svojoj umjetnosti i hrani.	Italy is known for its art and food.	Italija	Feminine	Italy		
Francuska ima poznatu kulinarsku tradiciju.	France has a famous culinary tradition.	Francuska	Feminine	France		
Njema?ka je poznata po svojoj tehnologiji.	Germany is known for its technology.	Njemacka	Feminine	Germany		
Rusija je najve?a zemlja na svijetu.	Russia is the largest country in the world.	Rusija	Feminine	Russia		
Sjedinjene Ameri?ke Države su poznate po svojoj raznolikosti.	The United States is known for its diversity.	Sjedinjene Americke Države	Feminine	USA		
Europa ima mnogo razli?itih kultura.	Europe has many different cultures.	Europa	Feminine	Europe		
Bit ?emo za pola sata.	We will be there in half an hour.	pola sata		half an hour		
Celo mu je bilo izloženo suncu.	His forehead was exposed to the sun.	celo	Neuter	forehead		leech
Bora na ?elu mu je postala vidljivija.	The wrinkles on his forehead became more visible.	bora	Feminine	wrinkle (skin)		
Ima dugu bradu.	He has a long beard.	brada	Feminine	chin, beard		
Ima crvene obraze nakon tr?anja.	He has red cheeks after running.	obraz	Masculine	cheek		leech
Trepavice su mu duge i guste.	His eyelashes are long and thick.	trepavice	Feminine	eyelashes		leech
Ima tanke obrve.	She has thin eyebrows.	obrva	Feminine	eyebrow		leech
Struk mi je previše uzak.	My waist is too narrow.	struk	Masculine	waist		leech
Potiljak mi je bio povrije?en.	The back of my head was hurt.	potiljak	Masculine	back of the head		leech
Prsa su mu široka i jaka.	His chest is broad and strong.	prsa	Feminine	chest		leech
Palac je najdeblji prst na ruci.	The thumb is the thickest finger on the hand.	palac	Masculine	thumb		
Mali prst je najmanji prst na ruci.	The little finger is the smallest finger on the hand.	mali prst	Masculine	little finger		
Prstenjak nosi prsten.	The ring finger wears a ring.	prstenjak	Masculine	ring finger		
Srednji prst je najduži prst na ruci.	The middle finger is the longest finger on the hand.	srednji prst	Masculine	middle finger		leech
Kažiprst pokazuje put.	The index finger points the way.	kažiprst	Masculine	index finger		leech
Ru?ni zglob je važan za pokrete ruke.	The wrist is important for hand movements.	rucni zglob	Masculine	wrist		
Nokti trebaju biti ?isti i uredni.	Nails should be clean and tidy.	nokat	Masculine	fingernail		
Peta me boli nakon dugog hodanja.	My heel hurts after a long walk.	peta	Feminine	heel		
Kralježnica podržava cijelo tijelo.	The spine supports the entire body.	kralježnica	Feminine	spine		
Miši?i su važni za kretanje.	Muscles are important for movement.	mišic	Masculine	muscle		leech
Kostur drži tijelo ?vrstim.	The skeleton keeps the body firm.	kostur	Masculine	skeleton		
Rebra štite unutarnje organe.	Ribs protect the internal organs.	rebro	Neuter	rib		
Kralježak je dio kralježnice.	A vertebra is part of the spine.	kralježak	Masculine	vertebra		
Mjehur se puni teku?inom.	The bladder fills with fluid.	mjehur	Masculine	bladder		
Vena prenosi krv natrag prema srcu.	A vein carries blood back to the heart.	vena	Feminine	vein		
Arterija prenosi krv od srca do ostatka tijela.	An artery carries blood from the heart to the rest of the body.	arterija	Feminine	artery		
Vagina je dio ženskog reproduktivnog sustava.	The vagina is part of the female reproductive system.	vagina	Feminine	vagina		
Sperma je potrebna za oplodnju jajne stanice.	Sperm is needed to fertilize an egg.	sperma	Feminine	sperm		
Penis je dio muškog reproduktivnog sustava.	The penis is part of the male reproductive system.	penis	Masculine	penis		
Testisi proizvode spermatozoide.	The testicles produce sperm.	testis	Masculine	testicles		
Ovaj vo?e je vrlo so?an.	This fruit is very juicy.	socan		juicy	socan, socna, socno, socni, socniji, najsocniji	
Sol je slan.	Salt is salty.	slan		salty	slan, slana, slano, slani, slaniji, najslaniji	
Sirovo meso treba kuhati.	Raw meat needs to be cooked.	sirov		raw	sirov, sirova, sirovo, sirovi, siroviji, najsiroviji	leech
Juha je kuhana i spremna za jelo.	The soup is cooked and ready to eat.	kuhan		boiled, cooked	kuhan, kuhana, kuhano, kuhani, kuhaniji, najkuhaniji	
Ona je stidljiva i ?esto se crveni.	She is shy and often blushes.	stidljiv		shy	stidljiv, stidljiva, stidljivo, stidljivi, stidljiviji, najstidljiviji	
Pohlepan ?ovjek uvijek želi više.	A greedy person always wants more.	pohlepan		greedy	pohlepan, pohlepna, pohlepno, pohlepni, pohlepniji, najpohlepniji	
Njegov otac je vrlo strog.	His father is very strict.	strog		strict	strog, stroga, strogo, strogi, stroži, najstroži	
On je gluh i ne ?uje dobro.	He is deaf and does not hear well.	gluh		deaf	gluh, gluha, gluho, gluhi, -, -	leech
On je nijem i koristi znakove za komunikaciju.	He is mute and uses signs for communication.	nijem		mute	nijem, nijema, nijemo, nijemi, -, -	leech
On je debel i treba vježbati.	He is fat and needs to exercise.	debeo		fat	debeo, debela, debelo, debeli, deblji, najdeblji	leech
Ona je mršava i treba dobiti na težini.	She is thin and needs to gain weight.	mršav		skinny	mršav, mršava, mršavo, mršavi, mršaviji, najmršaviji	leech
On je bucmast i sretan je sa svojim izgledom.	He is chubby and happy with his appearance.	bucmast		plump	bucmast, bucmasta, bucmasto, bucmasti, bucmastiji, najbucmastiji	leech
Ona je vitka i elegantna.	She is slim and elegant.	vitak		slim	vitak, vitka, vitko, vitki, vitkiji, najvitkiji	
Danas je sun?an i lijep dan.	Today is sunny and beautiful.	suncan		sunny	suncan, suncana, suncano, suncani, suncaniji, najsuncaniji	
Danas je kišovit i nosim kišobran.	Today is rainy and I am carrying an umbrella.	kišovit		rainy	kišovit, kišovita, kišovito, kišoviti, kišovitiji, najkišovitiji	
Jutro je bilo maglovito.	The morning was foggy.	maglovit		foggy	maglovit, maglovita, maglovito, magloviti, maglovitiji, najmaglovitiji	
Danas je obla?an dan.	Today is a cloudy day.	oblacan		cloudy	oblacan, oblacna, oblacno, oblacni, oblacniji, najoblacniji	
Vjetrovit dan može biti vrlo hladan.	A windy day can be very cold.	vjetrovit		windy	vjetrovit, vjetrovita, vjetrovito, vjetroviti, vjetrovitiji, najvjetrovitiji	
Koža je osjetljiv organ.	The skin is a sensitive organ.	koza	Feminine	skin, goat, leather		
Dizanje utega pomaže u izgradnji miši?a.	Weight lifting helps build muscle.	dizanje utega	Neuter	weight lifting		leech
Boks je borila?ka vještina.	Boxing is a martial art.	boks	Masculine	boxing		
Umjetni?ko klizanje je estetski sport.	Figure skating is an aesthetic sport.	umjetnicko klizanje	Neuter	figure skating		
Skijanje je popularno zimi.	Skiing is popular in winter.	skijanje	Neuter	skiing		
Hokej na ledu igra se na klizalištu.	Ice hockey is played on an ice rink.	hokej na ledu	Masculine	ice hockey		
Odbojka je timski sport s loptom.	Volleyball is a team sport with a ball.	odbojka	Feminine	volleyball		
Šah je strateška igra s figurama.	Chess is a strategic game with pieces.	šah	Masculine	chess		
Penjanje na stenu je izazovno.	Rock climbing is challenging.	penjanje	Neuter	climbing		
Zagrijavanje je važno prije vježbanja.	Warming up is important before exercising.	zagrijavanje	Neuter	warm-up		leech
Istezanje pomaže u oporavku miši?a.	Stretching helps with muscle recovery.	istezanje	Neuter	stretching		leech
Ima milijun zvijezda na nebu.	There are a million stars in the sky.	milijuna		million		
Milijarda ljudi živi na Zemlji.	A billion people live on Earth.	milijarda		billion		
Bilijun je broj s puno nula.	A trillion is a number with many zeros.	bilijun		trillion		
On voli kockati u kazinu.	He likes to gamble at the casino.	kockati		to gamble		leech
Po?eo je udebljati se nakon što je prestao vježbati.	He started to gain weight after he stopped exercising.	udebljati se		to gain weight		leech
Želim smršavjeti prije ljetnog odmora.	I want to lose weight before the summer vacation.	smršavjeti		to lose weight		
Po?eo je povra?ati nakon što je pojeo nešto loše.	He started to vomit after eating something bad.	povracati		to vomit		leech
On voli vikati kada se ljuti.	He likes to shout when he is angry.	vikati		to shout		
Bulji u ekran cijeli dan.	He stares at the screen all day.	buljiti		to stare		
Onesvijestila se zbog vru?ine.	She fainted due to the heat.	onesvijestiti se		to faint		
Moram gutati tablete svaki dan.	I have to swallow pills every day.	gutati		to swallow		
Drhtim od hladno?e.	I am shivering from the cold.	drhtati		to shiver		leech
Masiram le?a kako bih se opustio.	I massage my back to relax.	masirati		to give a massage		
Penjem se po stablima.	I climb trees.	penjati se		to climb		
Citiram poznati citat u knjizi.	I quote a famous quote from the book.	citirati		to quote		
Moram ispisati ove podatke na papir.	I need to write down these details on paper.	ispisati		to print		
Skenirao sam dokumente za arhivu.	I scanned the documents for the archive.	skenirati		to scan		
Trebam izra?unati troškove za putovanje.	I need to calculate the costs for the trip.	izracunati		to calculate		leech
Želim zaraditi više novca.	I want to earn more money.	zaraditi		to earn		leech
Mjerim temperaturu svakodnevno.	I measure the temperature daily	mjeriti		to measure		
Trebam usisavati pod svaki tjedan.	I need to vacuum the floor every week.	usisavati		to vacuum		
Moramo sušiti rublje nakon pranja.	We need to dry the laundry after washing.	sušiti		to dry		leech
Prokuhala je vodu prije nego što je dodala ?aj.	She boiled the water before adding tea.	prokuhati		to boil		
On voli pržiti povr?e u tiganju.	He likes to fry vegetables in a pan.	pržiti		to fry		leech
Dizalo je pokvareno pa moramo koristiti stepenice.	The elevator is broken, so we have to use the stairs.	dizalo	Neuter	elevator		
Imamo mali balkon s pogledom na more.	We have a small balcony with a sea view.	balkon	Masculine	balcony		
Pod u kuhinji je od drva.	The kitchen floor is made of wood.	pod	Masculine	floor		
Potkrovlje je pretvoreno u radnu sobu.	The attic has been turned into an office.	potkrovlje	Neuter	attic		leech
Ulazna vrata su crvena i moderna.	The front door is red and modern.	ulazna vrata	Feminine	front door		
Hodnik je uzak, ali dobro osvijetljen.	The hallway is narrow but well-lit.	hodnik	Masculine	corridor		leech
Prizemlje ima dnevni boravak i kuhinju.	The ground floor has a living room and kitchen.	prizemlje	Neuter	ground floor		leech
Na prvom katu su spava?e sobe.	The first floor has the bedrooms.	prvi kat	Masculine	first floor		
Dimnjak je potrebno redovito ?istiti.	The chimney needs to be cleaned regularly.	dimnjak	Masculine	chimney		
Ventilator pomaže da se rashladimo tijekom ljeta.	The fan helps us cool down during summer.	ventilator	Masculine	fan		
Klima ure?aj je uklju?en kako bi se ohladio prostor.	The air conditioner is on to cool the room.	klima uredaj	Masculine	air conditioner		
Imam novi aparat za kavu koji pravi odli?nu kavu.	I have a new coffee machine that makes great coffee.	aparat za kavu	Masculine	coffee machine		
Toster koristi za pe?enje kruha.	The toaster is used for toasting bread.	toster	Masculine	toaster		
Usisava? je stao raditi.	The vacuum cleaner stopped working.	usisavac	Masculine	vacuum cleaner		
Sušilo za kosu je na stolu u kupaonici.	The hairdryer is on the bathroom counter.	sušilo za kosu	Neuter	hair dryer		
?ajnik kuha vodu za ?aj.	The kettle boils water for tea.	cajnik	Masculine	kettle		
Perilica posu?a je puna prljavih tanjura.	The dishwasher is full of dirty dishes.	perilica posuda	Feminine	dishwasher		leech
Kuhalo za vodu je brzo prokuhalo vodu.	The stovetop quickly boiled the water.	kuhalo	Neuter	cooker, stovetop		
Pe?nica je zagrijana na 200 stupnjeva.	The oven is preheated to 200 degrees.	pecnica	Feminine	oven		
Mikrovalna pe?nica se koristi za brzo kuhanje.	The microwave is used for quick cooking.	mikrovalna pecnica	Feminine	microwave oven		
Hladnjak drži hranu svježom.	The refrigerator keeps food fresh.	hladnjak	Masculine	fridge		leech
Perilica za rublje pere odje?u.	The washing machine cleans clothes.	perilica za rublje	Feminine	washing machine		leech
Grijanje je potrebno tijekom zime.	Heating is necessary during winter.	grijanje	Neuter	heating		
Daljinski upravlja? je izgubljen.	The remote control is lost.	daljinski upravljac	Masculine	remote control		
Spužva je mokra nakon ?iš?enja stola.	The sponge is wet after cleaning the table.	spužva	Feminine	sponge		
Kuha?a se koristi za miješanje jela.	The ladle is used for stirring dishes.	kuhaca	Feminine	wooden spoon		leech
Žlica je na stolu pored tanjura.	The spoon is on the table next to the plate.	žlica	Feminine	spoon		leech
Vilica je potrebna za jesti meso.	A fork is needed to eat meat.	vilica	Feminine	fork		
Kutla?a je u ladici u kuhinji.	The ladle is in the kitchen drawer.	kutlaca	Feminine	ladle		leech
Lonac je na štednjaku.	The pot is on the stove.	Lonac	Masculine	pot		
Tava se koristi za prženje jaja.	The pan is used for frying eggs.	tava	Feminine	pan		
Žarulja u hodniku je pregorjela.	The light bulb in the hallway is burnt out.	žarulja	Feminine	light bulb		leech
Budilica me budi svakog jutra.	The alarm clock wakes me up every morning.	budilica	Feminine	alarm clock		
Sef ?uva vrijedne stvari.	The safe keeps valuable items.	sef	Masculine	safe (money)		
Polica za knjige je puna knjiga.	The bookshelf is full of books.	polica za knjige	Feminine	bookshelf		
Zavjese su plave i nove.	The curtains are blue and new.	zavjesa	Feminine	curtain		leech
Madrac je vrlo udoban.	The mattress is very comfortable.	madrac	Masculine	mattress		
Jastuk je mekan i udoban za spavanje.	The pillow is soft and comfortable for sleeping.	jastuk	Masculine	pillow		leech
Deka je topla i mekana.	The blanket is warm and soft.	deka	Feminine	blanket		
Polica je puna sitnica.	The shelf is full of knick-knacks.	polica	Feminine	shelf		leech
Ladica u komodi je puna ?arapa.	The drawer in the dresser is full of socks.	ladica	Feminine	drawer		leech
Garderobni ormar je velik i ima mnogo prostora.	The wardrobe is large and has a lot of space.	garderobni ormar	Masculine	wardrobe		
Kanta za sme?e je puna.	The trash can is full.	kanta	Feminine	bucket, trash can		leech
Metla se koristi za ?iš?enje poda.	The broom is used for cleaning the floor.	metla	Feminine	broom		
Vaga mjeri težinu.	The scale measures weight.	vaga	Feminine	scale		
Kada se koristi za kupanje.	The bathtub is used for bathing.	kada	Feminine	bathtub		leech
Sapun se koristi za pranje ruku.	Soap is used for washing hands.	sapun	Masculine	soap		
Toaletni papir je u WC-u.	Toilet paper is in the bathroom.	toaletni papir	Masculine	toliet paper		
Ru?nik je na vješalici.	The towel is on the rack.	rucnik	Masculine	towel		leech
Umivaonik je na zidu u kupaonici.	The sink is mounted on the wall in the bathroom.	umivaonik	Masculine	sink		leech
Prekida? za svjetlo je pored vrata.	The light switch is next to the door.	prekidac za svjetlo	Masculine	light switch		leech
Kalendar visi na zidu.	The calendar is hanging on the wall.	kalendar	Masculine	calendar		
Uticnica se koristi za elektri?ne ure?aje.	The socket is used for electrical appliances.	uticnica	Feminine	power outlet		
Tepih u dnevnoj sobi je mekan.	The rug in the living room is soft.	tepih	Masculine	carpet		
Pila se koristi za rezanje drva.	The saw is used for cutting wood.	pila	Feminine	saw		
Sjekira je alat za sje?u drva.	The axe is a tool for chopping wood.	sjekira	Feminine	axe		
Ljestve su potrebne za rad na visini.	The ladder is needed for working at height.	ljestve	Feminine	ladder		
Crijevo se koristi za zalijevanje vrta.	The hose is used for watering the garden.	crijevo	Neuter	hose		leech
Lopata pomaže u kopanju zemlje.	The shovel helps with digging the soil.	lopata	Feminine	shovel		
Hostel je jeftin smještaj za putnike.	The hostel is a cheap accommodation for travelers.	hostel	Masculine	hostel		
Viza je potrebna za putovanje u mnoge zemlje.	A visa is needed to travel to many countries.	viza	Feminine	visa		
Putovnica je dokument za me?unarodna putovanja.	A passport is a document for international travel.	putovnica	Feminine	passport		
Dnevnik pišem svake ve?eri.	I write in my journal every evening.	dnevnik	Masculine	diary		leech
Ruksak je spreman za školu.	The backpack is ready for school.	ruksak	Masculine	backpack		
Šator je postavljen na kampovanju.	The tent is set up at the campsite.	šator	Masculine	tent		
Imam rezervaciju za ve?eru.	I have a reservation for dinner.	rezervacija	Feminine	reservation		
Spavaonica u hostelu je puna kreveta.	The dormitory in the hostel is full of beds.	spavaonica	Feminine	dorm room		leech
Prtljaga je preteška za nositi.	The luggage is too heavy to carry.	prtljaga	Feminine	luggage		
Predvorje hotela je veliko i udobno.	The hotel lobby is large and comfortable.	predvorje	Neuter	lobby		
Desetlje?e je period od deset godina.	A decade is a period of ten years.	desetljece	Neuter	decade		
Ovo stolje?e po?elo je 2001. godine.	This century started in 2001.	stoljece	Neuter	century		
Tisu?lje?e je razdoblje od tisu?u godina.	A millennium is a period of one thousand years.	tisucljece	Neuter	millenium		leech
No? vještica se slavi 31. listopada.	Halloween is celebrated on October 31st.	Noc vještica	Feminine	Halloween		
Moj unuk ide u školu.	My grandson goes to school.	unuce	Neuter	grandchild		
Svekrva je moja maj?ina majka.	"My mother-in-law is my mother&amp;amp;#x27;s mother."	svekrva/punica	Feminine	mother-in-law		
Svekar je otac mog supruga.	My father-in-law is my husband's father.	svekar/punac	Masculine	father-in-law		leech
Unuka dolazi u posjet.	My granddaughter is coming to visit.	unuka	Feminine	granddaughter		leech
Unuk se igra u parku.	My grandson is playing in the park.	unuk	Masculine	grandson		leech
Moj zet voli sport.	My son-in-law loves sports.	zet	Masculine	son-in-law		leech
Snaha mi je kupila poklon.	My daughter-in-law bought me a gift.	snaha	Feminine	daughter-in-law		
Moj ne?ak igra nogomet.	My nephew plays soccer.	necak	Masculine	nephew		leech
Ne?akinja mi dolazi na ro?endan.	My niece is coming for the birthday.	necakinja	Feminine	niece		
Sestra i sestri?na dolaze na ve?eru.	My sister and cousin are coming for dinner.	sestricna	Feminine	cousin (female)		
Brati? mi dolazi u posjet.	My cousin is coming to visit.	bratic	Masculine	cousin (male)		
Groblje je mjesto gdje se pokapaju preminuli.	The cemetery is where the deceased are buried.	groblje	Neuter	cemetery		
Spol djeteta je odredio lije?nik.	The child's gender was determined by the doctor.	spol	Masculine	gender		leech
Siro?e je dijete koje je izgubilo roditelje.	An orphan is a child who has lost their parents.	siroce	Neuter	orphan		
Leš je prona?en u šumi.	The corpse was found in the forest.	leš	Masculine	corpse		leech
Srednja škola je obrazovna institucija za tinejdžere.	High school is an educational institution for teenagers.	srednja škola	Feminine	high school		
Osnovna škola je prva faza obrazovanja.	Primary school is the first stage of education.	osnovna škola	Feminine	junior school (junior high?)		
Blizanci su ro?eni u isto vrijeme.	Twins are born at the same time.	blizanci	Masculine	twins		
Djeca idu u vrti? prije škole.	Children go to kindergarten before school.	vrtic	Masculine	kindergarten		
Ro?enje djeteta je radostan doga?aj.	The birth of a child is a joyful event.	rodenje	Neuter	birth		
Akumulator se koristi za napajanje automobila.	The battery is used to power the car.	akumulator	Masculine	battery		
Motor automobila je pokvaren.	The car engine is broken.	motor	Masculine	motor		
Truba se koristi za davanje signala.	The trumpet is used to give signals.	truba	Feminine	horn (car)		
Kočnica automobila ne radi ispravno.	The car's brake is not working properly.	 kocnica	Feminine	brake (car)		
Pritisni gas da ubrzaš.	Press the gas to accelerate.	gas	Masculine	throttle (car)		
Drži volan čvrsto dok voziš.	Hold the steering wheel firmly while driving.	 volan	Masculine	steering wheel		
Treba nam benzin za automobil.	We need gasoline for the car.	benzin	Masculine	gas/petrol		
Dizel je skuplji od benzina.	Diesel is more expensive than gasoline.	dizel	Masculine	diesel		
Guma na biciklu je prazna.	The bicycle tire is flat.	guma	Feminine	tire		
Peron je prepun putnika.	The platform is crowded with passengers.	peron	Masculine	platform (train)		leech
Vozarina je skupa za ovu relaciju.	The fare is expensive for this route.	vozarina	Feminine	fare		
Zračna luka je udaljena od grada.	The airport is far from the city.	 zracna luka	Feminine	airport		
Odlazak iz hotela je u 10 sati.	The check-out from the hotel is at 10 o'clock.	odlazak	Masculine	departure		
Dolazak na odredište je predviđen u 18 sati.	The arrival at the destination is expected at 6 PM.	 dolazak	Masculine	arrival		leech
Avioprijevoznik nudi različite usluge.	The airline offers various services.	 avioprijevoznik	Masculine	airline		
Krilo zrakoplova je oštećeno.	The plane's wing is damaged.	 krilo	Neuter	wing (plane)		
Luka je glavno pristanište za brodove.	The port is the main harbor for ships.	luka	Feminine	harbor		
Čitam novi roman o povijesti.	I am reading a new novel about history.	 roman	Masculine	novel		
Tekst u knjizi je vrlo zanimljiv.	The text in the book is very interesting.	tekst	Masculine	text		
Slovo &quot;A&quot; je prvo slovo abecede.	The letter &quot;A&quot; is the first letter of the alphabet.	 slovo	Neuter	letter (a,b,c...)		
Sadržaj ove knjige je bogat.	The content of this book is rich.	sadržaj	Masculine	content		
Kupila sam novu bilježnicu za školu.	I bought a new notebook for school.	bilježnica	Feminine	notebook		
Politika može biti složena i komplicirana.	Politics can be complex and complicated.	politika	Feminine	politics		
Filozofija se bavi pitanjima života i znanja.	Philosophy deals with questions of life and knowledge.	filozofija	Feminine	philosophy		
Ekonomija proučava proizvodnju i distribuciju dobara.	Economics studies the production and distribution of goods.	 ekonomija	Feminine	economics		
Zemljopis uči o različitim dijelovima svijeta.	Geography teaches about different parts of the world.	 zemljopis	Masculine	geography		
Književnost obuhvaća poeziju i prozu.	Literature includes poetry and prose.	 književnost	Feminine	literature		
Učim njemački jezik na tečaju.	I am learning German at a course.	 njemacki	Masculine	German language		
Španjolski jezik je koristan za putovanja u Španjolskoj.	Spanish is useful for traveling in Spain.	španjolski	Masculine	Spanish language		
Škare su potrebne za rezanje papira.	Scissors are needed for cutting paper.	škare	Feminine	scissors		
Zbrajanje brojeva je osnovna matematička operacija.	Adding numbers is a basic mathematical operation.	 zbrajanje	Neuter	addition		leech
Oduzimanje je suprotno od zbrajanja.	Subtraction is the opposite of addition.	oduzimanje	Neuter	subtraction		leech
Množenje je matematička operacija za izračun proizvoda.	Multiplication is a mathematical operation for calculating products.	 množenje	Neuter	multiplication		
Dijeljenje brojeva koristi se za raspodjelu.	Division of numbers is used for distribution.	dijeljenje	Neuter	division		
Razlomak predstavlja dio cjeline.	A fraction represents a part of a whole.	razlomak	Masculine	fraction		leech
Kugla je okrugla i može biti sportska ili ukrasna.	A ball is round and can be either sports or decorative.	kugla	Feminine	sphere, ball		
Širina sobe je četiri metra.	The width of the room is four meters.	 širina	Feminine	width		
Visina zgrade je deset katova.	The height of the building is ten stories.	visina	Feminine	height		leech
Volumen ovog paketa je prevelik za našu policu.	The volume of this package is too big for our shelf.	volumen	Masculine	volume		
Krivulja na grafu pokazuje promjene.	The curve on the graph shows changes.	krivulja	Feminine	curve		
Kut između zidova je pravi.	The angle between the walls is right.	 kut	Masculine	angle		leech
Ravna crta je osnovni geometrijski pojam.	A straight line is a basic geometric concept.	ravna crta	Feminine	straight line		
Predavanje o biologiji počinje u 9 sati.	The biology lecture starts at 9 o'clock.	 predavanje	Neuter	lecture		
Tri cijela četiri je decimalni broj.	Three and four tenths is a decimal number.	tri cijela cetiri		3.4		
Točka označava mjesto na papiru.	A dot marks a location on the paper.	 tocka	Feminine	full stop		
Razmak između slova je važan za čitljivost.	The spacing between letters is important for readability.	 razmak	Masculine	space		leech
Tlo u vrtu je plodno za rast biljaka.	The soil in the garden is fertile for plant growth.	tlo	Neuter	soil		
Potok teče kroz šumu.	The stream flows through the forest.	 potok	Masculine	stream		leech
Špilja je prirodna šupljina u stijenama.	A cave is a natural cavity in rocks.	špilja	Feminine	cave		leech
Poplava je uzrokovana velikom količinom kiše.	The flood is caused by a large amount of rain.	 poplava	Feminine	flood		leech
Magla smanjuje vidljivost na cesti.	Fog reduces visibility on the road.	magla	Feminine	fog		leech
Duga se pojavljuje nakon kiše.	A rainbow appears after the rain.	duga	Feminine	rainbow		
Grmljavina prati munje tijekom oluje.	Thunder accompanies lightning during a storm.	grmljavina	Feminine	thunder		
Munja je sjajna i opasna.	Lightning is bright and dangerous.	munja	Feminine	lightning		leech
Temperatura danas je vrlo visoka.	The temperature today is very high.	temperatura	Feminine	temperature		
Oblak prekriva sunce.	The cloud is covering the sun.	oblak	Masculine	cloud		
Grana drveta se slomila.	The tree branch broke.	grana	Feminine	branch (tree)		leech
Listovi na drvetu su zeleni.	The leaves on the tree are green.	list	Masculine	leaf		
Korijen biljke je ispod tla.	The plant's root is under the soil.	korijen	Masculine	root		
Deblo stabla je veliko i čvrsto.	The trunk of the tree is large and strong.	 deblo	Neuter	trunk		
Sjeme se sadi u tlo da bi izraslo u biljku.	The seed is planted in the soil to grow into a plant.	sjeme	Neuter	seed		
Krutina materijala određuje njegovu čvrstoću.	The rigidity of a material determines its strength.	 krutina	Feminine	solid		
Tekućina u bočici je crvena.	The liquid in the bottle is red.	 tekucina	Feminine	fluid		
Japanke su udobne za nošenje na plaži.	Flip-flops are comfortable to wear at the beach.	japanke	Feminine	flip-flops		
Kabanica je potrebna za kišovito vrijeme.	A raincoat is needed for rainy weather.	kabanica	Feminine	rain coat		
Traperice su popularne hlače.	Jeans are popular trousers.	 traperice	Feminine	jeans		
Suknja je bila skupa, ali lijepa.	The skirt was expensive but beautiful.	suknja	Feminine	skirt		
Kratke hlače su idealne za vruće vrijeme.	Shorts are ideal for hot weather.	 kratke hlace	Feminine	shorts		
Kruna je simbol kraljevske moći.	A crown is a symbol of royal power.	 kruna	Feminine	crown		
Kišobran štiti od kiše.	An umbrella protects from the rain.	kišobran	Masculine	umbrella		
Naušnica je pala na pod.	The earring fell on the floor.	naušnica	Feminine	earring		
Ogrlica je izrađena od zlata.	The necklace is made of gold.	 ogrlica	Feminine	necklace		
Šilterica je zaštita za sunce.	The cap provides protection from the sun.	šilterica	Feminine	baseball hat		
Remen drži hlače na mjestu.	The belt keeps the pants in place.	 remen	Masculine	belt		leech
Kravata je dio formalne odjeće.	A tie is part of formal clothing.	 kravata	Feminine	tie (for a suit)		
Šal je ugodan i topao za zimu.	The scarf is cozy and warm for winter.	šal	Masculine	scarf		
Rukavice štite ruke od hladnoće.	Gloves protect hands from the cold.	 rukavica	Feminine	glove		
Gumb se koristi za zatvaranje košulje.	The button is used to close the shirt.	gumb	Masculine	button (clothes)		
Britvica se koristi za šišanje.	The razor is used for shaving.	britvica	Feminine	razor (shaving)		
Četka se koristi za čišćenje kose.	The brush is used for cleaning hair.	 četka	Feminine	cleaning brush		
Blagajna u trgovini je uvijek zauzeta.	The cashier's desk in the store is always busy.	blagajna	Feminine	cash register		
Košara je puna svježeg voća.	The basket is full of fresh fruit.	 košara	Feminine	basket (shopping)		
Ljekarna ima sve što vam treba za lijekove.	The pharmacy has everything you need for medicines.	ljekarna	Feminine	pharmacy		
Dvorac je star i povijestan.	The castle is old and historical.	dvorac	Masculine	castle		
Tvornica proizvodi automobile.	The factory produces cars.	tvornica	Feminine	factory		
Džamija je mjesto za molitvu.	The mosque is a place for prayer.	džamija	Feminine	mosque		
Gradska vijećnica je u centru grada.	The city hall is in the city center.	 gradska vijecnica	Feminine	town hall		leech
Poštanski ured šalje i prima poštu.	The post office sends and receives mail.	poštanski ured	Masculine	post office		
Klupa u parku je udobna.	The bench in the park is comfortable.	klupa	Feminine	bench		
Muzej ima mnoge izložbe.	The museum has many exhibitions.	muzej	Masculine	museum		
Savezna država ima vlastitu vladu.	A federal state has its own government.	savezna država	Feminine	federal state		leech
Regija ima specifičnu kulturu.	The region has a specific culture.	 regija	Feminine	region		
Glavni grad je političko središte zemlje.	The capital city is the political center of the country.	 glavni grad	Masculine	capital (lit. main city)		
Posjetitelj je došao pogledati izložbu.	The visitor came to see the exhibition.	posjetitelj	Masculine	visitor		leech
Računovodstvo se bavi financijama i knjigovodstvom.	Accounting deals with finances and bookkeeping.	 racunovodstvo	Neuter	accounting		
Prodaja u trgovini je povećana.	Sales in the store have increased.	 prodaja	Feminine	sales		
Kolega mi pomaže s projektom.	My colleague helps me with the project.	kolega	Masculine	colleague		
Poslodavac plaća zaposlenike na vrijeme.	The employer pays the employees on time.	 poslodavac	Masculine	employer		leech
Zaposlenik je na odmoru.	The employee is on vacation.	zaposlenik	Masculine	employee		leech
Bilješka sadrži važne informacije.	The note contains important information.	bilješka	Feminine	note (information)		leech
Fascikla drži sve dokumente na jednom mjestu.	The folder keeps all the documents in one place.	fascikla	Feminine	folder (physical)		
Omotnica je za slanje pisama.	The envelope is for sending letters.	omotnica	Feminine	envelope		
Premijer vodi vladu.	The prime minister leads the government.	premijer	Masculine	prime minister		
Zubar me pregledao i rekao da trebam novi ispun.	The dentist examined me and said I need a new filling.	zubar	Masculine	dentist		
Poduzetnik pokreće nove poslovne projekte.	The entrepreneur starts new business projects.	 poduzetnik	Masculine	entrepeneur		
Stanodavac je bio ljubazan i pomoći nam oko stana.	The landlord was kind and helped us with the apartment.	 stanodavac	Masculine	landlord		
Konobar nam je poslužio večeru.	The waiter served us dinner.	 konobar	Masculine	waiter		
Vojnik je služio u vojsci deset godina.	The soldier served in the army for ten years.	vojnik	Masculine	soldier		
Poljoprivrednik uzgaja voće i povrće.	The farmer grows fruits and vegetables.	 poljoprivrednik	Masculine	farmer		leech
Blagajnik je prebrojao novac.	The cashier counted the money.	blagajnik	Masculine	cashier		
Frizer mi je skratio kosu.	The hairdresser cut my hair.	frizer	Masculine	hairdresser		
Autor ove knjige je poznati pisac.	The author of this book is a famous writer.	autor	Masculine	author		
Lopov je ukrao torbu iz automobila.	The thief stole a bag from the car.	lopov	Masculine	thief		
Pjevač je nastupao na koncertu.	The singer performed at the concert.	 pjevac	Masculine	singer		
Glazbenik svira na violini.	The musician plays the violin.	glazbenik	Masculine	musician		
Glumac je osvojio nagradu za najbolju ulogu.	The actor won an award for best performance.	glumac	Masculine	actor		
Trener vodi nogometnu momčad.	The coach leads the soccer team.	 trener	Masculine	coach		
Mapa pokazuje različite zemlje.	The map shows different countries.	mapa	Feminine	map		
Mreža pomaže u povezivanju računala.	The network helps in connecting computers.	 mreža	Feminine	network		leech
Pisac piše knjige i članke.	The writer writes books and articles.	 pisac	Masculine	writer		
Zaslon računala je jasan i svijetao.	The computer screen is clear and bright.	 zaslon	Masculine	[computer] screen		leech
Osumnjičenik je uhićen zbog sumnje na krađu.	The suspect was arrested on suspicion of theft.	 osumnjicenik	Masculine	suspect		leech
Investicija u tehnologiju može donijeti veliki povrat.	Investment in technology can yield high returns.	investicija	Feminine	investment		
Burza je mjesto gdje se trguje dionicama.	The stock exchange is where stocks are traded.	burza	Feminine	stock exchange		
Dionice su porasle u vrijednosti.	The stocks have increased in value.	dionica	Feminine	share (investment)		
Funta je valuta Ujedinjenog Kraljevstva.	The pound is the currency of the United Kingdom.	funta	Feminine	British pound		
Euro je zajednička valuta u mnogim europskim zemljama.	The euro is the common currency in many European countries.	 euro	Masculine	Euro		
Dolar je valuta Sjedinjenih Američkih Država.	The dollar is the currency of the United States.	 dolar	Masculine	$ dollar		
Novčanica od 50 eura je izgubljena.	The 50-euro note is lost.	 novcanica	Feminine	note (money)		
Kovanica od 1 dolara je u mom novčaniku.	The 1-dollar coin is in my wallet.	 kovanica	Feminine	coin		
Kamata na kredit može varirati.	The interest on a loan can vary.	kamata	Feminine	interest (money)		leech
Zajam je novac posuđen za određeno vrijeme.	A loan is money borrowed for a certain period.	 zajam	Masculine	loan		leech
Pehar je osvojio najbolji sportaš.	The trophy was won by the best athlete.	pehar	Masculine	cup (trophy)		leech
Pakiranje proizvoda je važno za očuvanje kvalitete.	Packaging of products is important for preserving quality.	 pakiranje	Neuter	package		
Svijeća osvjetljava sobu.	The candle lights up the room.	 svijeca	Feminine	candle		leech
Baklja se koristi za osvjetljavanje noću.	A torch is used for lighting at night.	 baklja	Feminine	flashlight/torch		leech
Cigareta je štetna za zdravlje.	A cigarette is harmful to health.	cigareta	Feminine	cigarette		
Svećenik predvodi misu u crkvi.	The priest leads the mass in the church.	 svecenik	Masculine	priest		leech
Redatelj je odgovoran za režiju filma.	The director is responsible for directing the film.	redatelj	Masculine	director (movie)		
"Slovo ""A""  je prvo slovo abecede."	"The letter ""A"" is the first letter of the alphabet."	slovo	Neuter	letter (a,b,c...)		
Poličajac pomaže ljudima.	The police officer helps people.	poličajac	Masculine	policeman		
Srce mi kuća brzo kad trčim.	My heart beats fast when I run.	srce	Neuter	heart		
Bacila je papir u kantu za smeće.	She threw the paper into the trash can.	baciti		to throw, drop, dump		leech
Na željezničkoj stanici ?ekamo vlak.	We are waiting for the train at the railway station.	željeznička stanica	Feminine	train station		leech
On joj je dao prsten za rođendan.	He gave her a ring for her birthday.	prsten	Masculine	ring		
U travnju cvatu mnoge vrste cvijeća.	In April, many types of flowers bloom.	travanj	Masculine	April		leech
Upisao sam se na sveučilište prošle godine.	I enrolled in the university last year.	sveucilište	Neuter	university		
Pištolj je zaštićen u sefu.	The gun is secured in the safe.	pištolj	Masculine	gun/pistol		
Nesreća se dogodila ujutro.	The accident happened in the morning.	nesreca	Feminine	accident		
Prst je povrijeđen u nesre?i.	The finger is injured in the accident.	prst	Masculine	finger		
Pušenje može oštetiti pluća.	Smoking can damage the lungs.	pluća	Feminine	lung		leech
Osjećam se usamljen kada nitko nije kod ku?e.	I feel lonely when no one is at home.	usamljen		lonely	usamljen, usamljena, usamljeno, usamljeni, usamljeniji, najusamljeniji	leech
Ulica je tiha u noći.	The street is quiet at night.	tih		silent	tih, tiha, tiho, tihi, tiši, najtiši	
Vrt je pun cvijeća i povrća.	The garden is full of flowers and vegetables.	vrt	Masculine	garden		
Bacim otpad u kantu za smeće.	I throw the trash in the garbage can.	kanta za smeće	Feminine	garbage bin		leech
Kauč je velik i udoban.	The couch is big and comfortable.	kauč	Masculine	sofa		
Stolića je udobna za sjedenje.	The chair is comfortable to sit on.	stolića	Feminine	chair		leech
Netko je ukrao moj novčanik.	Someone stole my wallet.	ukrasti		to steal		
Pas voli gristi igračke.	The dog likes to chew toys.	gristi		to bite		leech
Kurir će dostaviti paket sutra.	The courier will deliver the package tomorrow.	dostaviti		to deliver		
On traži svoj ključevi.	He is looking for his keys.	tražiti		to look for		leech
Oni vole putovati u egzotična mjesta.	They love to travel to exotic places.	putovati		to travel		leech
Učimo engleski jezik u školi.	We are learning English at school.	engleski	Masculine	English		
Kupio sam poklon za rođendan.	I bought a gift for the birthday.	poklon	Masculine	gift		
Vatra je jako vruća.	The fire is very hot.	vatra	Feminine	fire		leech
Prošlavili smo praznik s obitelji.	We celebrated the holiday with family.	praznik	Masculine	holiday		
Prošlavili smo rođendan mog brata.	We celebrated my brother’s birthday.	rođendan	Masculine	birthday		leech
Potiljak mi je bio povrijeđen.	The back of my head was hurt.	potiljak	Masculine	back of the head		leech
Kanta za smeće je puna.	The trash can is full.	kanta	Feminine	bucket, trash can		leech
Metla se koristi za čišćenje poda.	The broom is used for cleaning the floor.	metla	Feminine	broom		
Utičnica se koristi za elektri?ne ure?aje.	The socket is used for electrical appliances.	utičnica	Feminine	power outlet		
Ne?akinja mi dolazi na rođendan.	My niece is coming for the birthday.	necakinja	Feminine	niece		
